
- **The principle of sanity**: For someone who is capable of philosophical reflection, it is impossible to genuinely believe oneself to not be a rational agent.

**Clarification for this principle**: This principle also applies to acceptance (i.e. It is impossible for someone to accept oneself to not be a rational agent), but I will focus on belief in the rest of the paper unless specified otherwise.

Here, "philosophical reflection" roughly refers to activities such as examining and revising one's beliefs, analyzing arguments, and choosing between competing theories. The condition "for a person capable of philosophical reflection" is to rule out certain aberrant counterexamples. For instance, someone who has been so thoroughly brainwashed that their only possible belief is "I am not a rational agent" would not qualify as a counterexample. I assume all readers who have already made it here have already satisfied this constraint.

The precise meaning of "rational agency" is, of course, highly controversial and open to multiple interpretations. Consequently, this principle will have different variants depending on how one chooses to define the term. However, I contend that the *principle of sanity* is plausible under most, if not all, of these interpretations.

For now, I will start by adopting a minimal account of rational agency as *epistemic agency*. What I mean by "epistemic agency" here is not the kind of agency resisted by doxastic involuntarists. According to doxastic involuntarists, *direct* voluntary control over belief is not possible for us. But here, I use "epistemic agency" to refer to any sort of agential control over our beliefs, no matter how indirect. For example, we have the ability to choose to re-examine our beliefs and investigate new evidence. Doxastic involuntarists, like Hieronymi 2008, also acknowledge that we possess this kind of indirect control. Therefore, it is uncontroversial that we have epistemic agency in the relevant sense.

**Reason for this principle**: This is more or less an axiom in this paper that I take to be self-evident. But I will still try to give some defense. First, implicitly, this is already a widely accepted principle. 

Aristotle appears to adopt this principle in Chapter 9 of _De Interpretatione_. There, he rejects the principle of bivalence due to our deliberation and action. He argues that, because deliberation and action obviously requires the future to be open, propositions about the future cannot have a pre-determined truth value. Therefore the principle of bivalence is false. However, Aristotle's argument seems to epistemic instead of metaphysical. When he writes that "what will be has an origin both in deliberation and in action" (19a6-9), the most plausible interpretation is that our *beliefs* about the future originate from these rational activities, not the future state of affairs itself. If so, his argument is best understood as follows: it is impossible for us to genuinely *believe* that the future is predetermined while simultaneously viewing ourselves as rational agents who deliberate. Therefore, by *the principle of sanity*, we must reject the principle of bivalence.

There are also more contemporary cases.People seems to reject epiphenomenalism largely due to the reason that, it's insane to say we do not have any sort of mental causation. And I will argue later that, the motivation of a widely held metasemantics principle, *the Principle of Charity*, actually comes from of a stronger version of *the Principle of Sanity*. Therefore, in fact people have been implicitly using this principle.

Nonetheless, I will also try to sketch a direct defense. If the principle were false, then it would be possible for a creature to engage in philosophical reflection without believing itself to have rational agency. But philosophical reflection inherently requires making inferences and utilizing abstract concepts. Let's assume, as is widely held, that such complex thought requires language (or some language-like mentalese). Then, using language for this purpose necessitates rational agency.

To use language requires intentionality. For example, a dinosaur that accidentally scratches the shape of the symbol "water" into the ground is not using language, because it does not use the symbol intentionally to represent something. Therefore, intentionality is necessary for language use. But to use representation intentionally for philosophical reflection is just to exercise the very sort of indirect, agential control over one's beliefs by potentially revising what one holds to be true. And we must be able, at least to some extent, to be aware of our own intentions. Thus, if we use language to engage in philosophical reflection, we must be aware of our epistemic agency.

I do not take this to be an invincible argument. Perhaps with some heavy argument, one may claim we can build a "philosophy machine" that can reflect on arguments and produce a philosophy paper while being completely non-agential. However, I believe it is quite obvious that rejecting the principle of sanity, plainly, is to be insane. Even if such a "philosophy machine" is possible, I still think no person should reject this principle, simply because we should not be insane. ==In other words, I am in fact suggesting two different principles. The stronger version is what I explicitly laid down and inclined to stand with. But even if one somehow resisted it, my conclusion can still be established by the weaker version, i.e. if we are capable of philosophical reflection, then we should not believe we are not rational  agents.==

There are obvious consequence for adopting this principle. Together with the following innocent principle that:

- **Ought Implies Can**: If it is impossible for us to believe that P, then it is not the case that we ought to believe that P.

It follows that *the Principle of Sanity* is incompatible with the traditional account of rationality: A belief is rational iff the reason to believe is truth-tracking. This is because the principle of sanity commits us to a belief we must hold (that we are rational agents), regardless of the evidence. Assume our epistemic norm is to hold only true beliefs, and scientists tell us that rational agency is just an illusion, then we would be obligated to believe that we are not rational agents. But according to the principle that *Ought Implies Can*, there is no such obligation.

Then immediately, one might object that if epistemic norms must be truth-tracking, then we should rationally reject *the Principle of Sanity* itself. However, what does it mean to "rationally reject" a principle? If doing so is an act of philosophical reflection, then, as argued earlier, the very act requires us to presuppose our own epistemic agency. Therefore, any attempt to "rationally reject" *the Principle of Sanity* is self-defeating, as the act of rejection presupposes the very rational agency the principle commands us to accept.

There is also an auxiliary argument that help me establish the metaphysical argument that I want to establish. According to the neo-Quinean view on metametaphysics, choosing between empirically-equivalent theories is a matter of comparing their pragmatic virtues. And usually, they were considering theoretic simplicity, elegance, etc. But what how could these pragmatic virtues more valuable than our rational agency? 