A metaphysical approach to the epistemic approach to ground
## Intro

Over the past twenty years or so, many have grown tired of Quinean ontology and Carnapian metaontology (==citation==). People have found that even if we figure out what indispensably exists, we still seem to miss something important: what is more fundamental than what, and what is most fundamental. As a result, many have rallied under the banner of fundamentality. Since then, metaphysics has undergone a revolution.

The orthodox way to analyze fundamentality is through the so-called "grounding relation." Roughly: if $X$ grounds $Y$, then $X$ is more fundamental than $Y$; and if $X$ is ungrounded, then $X$ is absolutely fundamental. There are ordinary intelligible locutions that reveal this kind of relation: there is a table *because* there are particles arranged tablewise; Singleton Socrates exists *in virtue of* Socrates' existence. And isn't it obvious that, these locutions are *objectively* true? Thus, there is a strong intuition that the grounding facts are something out there in the world, not merely a conceptual matter.

This intuition is compelling, but can it bear scrutiny? Hall (==An Epistemic Approach to Ground==) argues for an epistemic approach to ground. According to Hall, the motivating locutions, like "in virtue of," are grounding explanations. They are perfectly fine. But it does not follow that grounding itself is metaphysical. The alternative is to take the nature of grounding as "purely a topic in epistemology," because the grounding relation does not "mark out any distinctive kind of metaphysical structure."

It's better that Hall's approach is mistaken. Afterall, an important reason people start to move on to the grounding project is the following. The previous paradigm in metaphysics, the Quinean question on what there is, has been shown to be largely verbal by the thesis of Quantifier Variance.[^1] In other words, the grounding project is supposed to be the hope to make metaphysics substantial again. If it turns out that grounding structure is still just a matter of our epistemology, then that would be a catastrophe for metaphysicians.



## The epistemic approach to ground

What is the epistemic approach to ground? As I said in the intro, there is a special kind of non-causal explanation: there is a table *because* there are particles arranged tablewise; Singleton Socrates exists *in virtue of* Socrates' existence. It is out of this kind of locution that motivates people to posit metaphysical grounding relation.

But explanations are (in)famously sensitive to context, like our interests, background knowledge, and so on. Suppose someone is investigating why a forest fire occurred. In that context, answering "Because oxygen is present in the atmosphere" would be inappropriate. In a chemistry class, however, the same question, "Why was there a forest fire?", might be aptly answered by "Because oxygen is present in the atmosphere." In short, whether something counts as an explanation can depend on contingent features like our epistemic interest or human psychology.

The metaphysical approach to grounding explanations makes a critical claim:

{::M} Grounding explanations are explanatory in virtue of the deep structure of reality.

This is the move Hall targets. Why think grounding explanations are explanatory because of some deep structure of reality? Perhaps they are explanatory because of something else, like our epistemic or psychological features. Hall's alternative proposal is:

{::E} Grounding explanations are explanatory in virtue of our epistemic and psychological features.

Why does Hall argue against {::M}? First, he reconstructs the motivation for {::M}. Then he undermines that motivation by an example. Finally, Hall use his example to motivate {::E}. The problem, then, is to what extent his example can undermine {::M} and support {::E}.

Let me first explain the motivation for {::M}, which comes from ==Lewis 1986=='s distinction between an *explanatory act* and *explanatory information*. An explanation can be inappropriate in a given context while still conveying explanatory information. In the forest-fire case, it is at least plausible that the presence of atmospheric oxygen is a piece of relevant explanatory *information*. The *act* of offering that information, however, may be inappropriate in some contexts.

On the basis of this distinction, Lewis proposes a "metaphysical ascent." On his view, whether an *act of explaining* is well performed depends on epistemic and psychological factors. By contrast, whether something counts as *explanatory information* is independent of those factors and is a matter of metaphysics. More specifically, Lewis holds that explanatory information about an event concerns the causal structure that produces it: the causes, the causes of those causes, and so on.

This ascent can be extended to the metaphysical approach to grounding. Essentially, Lewis suggests that a genuine explanation of $x$ is backed by a structure underlying $x$; and that structure need not be limited to causal structure. It is natural, then, to bring grounding structure into the picture. The resulting line of thought is:

{::1} A grounding explanation is explanatory because it conveys information about grounding structure.
{::2} The information about grounding structure reveals some deep metaphysical structure of reality.

From {::1} and {::2}, {::M} follows. 

Hall wants to undermine {::2}. In other words, Hall acknowledges the distinction between explanatory acts and explanatory information. But he rejects Lewis's "metaphysical ascent", because the act/information distinction does not entail that explanatory information must be something metaphysical. On Hall's view, what makes some chunk of information explanatory could still be epistemic and psychological, without appealing to metaphysics.

Why say this? Because it is obvious that, there's a tight connection between explanation and understanding. But whether we understand something surely depend on our epistemology and psychology. Lewis' view needs to maintain this tight connection, while argue that some information can be explanatory purely out of metaphysical reasons. How?

Lewis' reply is that, to understand something is just to possess enough explanatory information. ==(Lewis 1986 p. 28)== However, this seems wrong. On Lewis's picture, the first billion years of the causal history leading to the window's breaking would count as a huge body of explanatory information. If understanding were simply possessing enough explanatory information, and if explanatory information is just about metaphysical structure, then learning about that first billion-year history should greatly improve our understanding of why the window broke. It plainly does not. Therefore, as Hall argues, the more plausible approach is to say that what makes some information explanatory is whether it improves our understanding, not that we understand by merely possessing explanatory information. Given that what counts as explanatory depends on whether it produces understanding, then Hall's view opens up the possiblity to reject {::2}: information about grounding structure may track the order of our *understanding*, not the order of reality.

But this line of reasoning merely opens an alternative to {::2}; it does not show {::2} to be false. Epistemic and psychological features can influence whether a chunk of information is explanatory. It does not follow that they are the only source of explanatory status; Metaphysical facts may still matter. 

Hall offers an example that tries to push us towards the negation of {::2}. The example runs as follows. In our mathematics, we distinguish axioms from theorems, lemmas and corollaries. Theorems are proven from axioms, and lemmas and corollaries are proven from theorems. For example, strong induction is a theorem that can be proven from the Peano axioms (PA). We may say the PA explain why strong induction is true, and that the PA are more basic than strong induction. Therefore, our mathematic is *structured*. However, Hall invites us to imagine two different kinds of Alien Arithmeticians (AAs).

The first kind of AAs has mathematics very similar to ours, but adopts a completely different set of axioms. Thus, they have a very different conception of which propositions are fundamental and which are derived. The second kind of AAs, by contrast, takes the Peano axioms as its preferred axioms, but cannot understand why we distinguish theorems, lemmas, and corollaries. For them, every result is treated as a direct consequence of the axioms, and they cannot make sense of our talk about some proofs being more elegant than others. Consequently, their conception of mathematical structure has only two layers: a fundamental layer of axioms and a second layer containing everything else.

What these two kinds of AAs are supposed to show is best understood as follows. There seems to be no flaw in the AAs' mathematics. We agree with them on the truth value of every mathematical proposition, yet they impose alternative structures on mathematics. Are they making some metaphysical mistake nevertheless? There seems no reason to say so. According to Hall, our conception of the rich structure of axioms, theorems, lemmas, and corollaries should not be taken as a matter of metaphysics. Instead, it should be taken as the structure of understanding, not the structure of reality. 

Given this motivation, Hall generalizes it into the following claim:

> A grounding claim counts as explanatory not in virtue of the fact that it provides information about a special kind of metaphysical structure, but in virtue of the kind of epistemic benefit it confers on its recipients. ==Hall 2023, p. 252==

In other words, on Hall's view, to say that $x$ grounds $y$ is (roughly) to say that $x$ gives us more epistemic benefit than $y$. For example, $x$ may "enhance our ability to conduct inquiry into what necessitates what". Hence, Hall motivates {::E} as an alternative epistemic approach to grounding, without showing that {::M} is wrong.

## The Problem with Hall's argument

There are some critical issues with Hall's argument. First, what does "epistemic benefit" mean, exactly? In Sections 5, Hall explains that mathematical axioms give us epistemic benefit because they are "exceedingly obvious". But that is precisely what grounding claims are *not* about. The project of grounding is often seen as a revival of Aristotle's metaphysics. So let's go back to Aristotle:

> The natural way of doing this is to start from the things which are more knowable and obvious to us and proceed towards those which are clearer and more knowable by nature; for the same things are not 'knowable relatively to us' and 'knowable' without qualification. So in the present inquiry we must follow this method and advance from what is more obscure by nature, but clearer to us, towards what is more clear and more knowable by nature. (Physics I, 184a17–23)

What Aristotle means by "clear by nature" is far from clear. Still, on his view, what is more fundamental may be less clear to us. For example, it is intuitive to say that, particles arranged tablewise are more fundamental than a table. Yet for us, a table is a much clearer concept than a particle. We know what a table typically looks like and what we can do with a table. Most people know very little about particles, and we never reason in terms of particles. Even for someone who has spent years studying particle physics, we still seem bewildered by certain features of particles: are they just waves? do they exist in a probabilistic state? and so on. We are not bewildered by a table (perhaps aside from the occasional piece in a modern art museum). So it seems false to say, particles arranged tablewise give us more epistemic benefit than tables.

Second, I believe Hall's argument from AA's alternative mathematical structure is on the right track. But the move from AA to a generalized claim about grounding is too quick. If the argument from AA holds, then it shows that information about *mathematical* structure may not reveal some deep metaphysical structure of reality. It does not follow that, reality has no metaphysical structure at all. 

Eventually, I will explicate what "epistemic benefit" should mean. By doing so, I show that {::E} is right, but {::M} is compatible with it. But for now, let's turn to the second problem. Hall's argument surely carries weight, but it seems that Hall over-generalized his conclusion. The first thing we need to sort out is how far Hall's argument can go.
## Rethinking Hall's argument

In Hall's paper, there is an important move from his mathematic example to metaphysics. Hall said, 

> In the mathematical case, we begin with a set of truth, ... But not *just* that: we also have, it seems, a basic epistemic interest in achieving mathematical understanding. To that end, we impose a structure of axioms, key concepts, and important theorems, and by appeal to that structure do such things as distinguishing certain proofs as 'more illuminating' than others.

Then Hall invite us to "view metaphysical inquiry through the same length": 

> We have ... a set of propositions. ... Propositions stand in relations of necessitation to each other: p necessitates q iff every world in which p is true is a world which q is true. There is simply no more metaphysical structure than *that*. But the epistemic aims we metaphysicians set for ourselves require us to attend to an explanatory structure...

In other words, the critical move of generalization relies on an analogy. Hall himself is well aware of this, so he says that his view is only an alternative, not a knock-down argument. But it surely does carry some force. What exactly is Hall's challenge here? And what would it take for robust realists about grounding to reject Hall's challenge?

Before addressing that, I need to clarify what I mean by grounding. In Hall's discussion, grounding simply is *the* relation used to analyze fundamentality. But this is controversial. Sometimes, what is called "the grounding relation"is taken to be a narrow, specific relation whose relata are *facts*. To avoid confusion, let's call this narrow conception *factive grounding*. But we may also say that some *object*, like Socrates, is more fundamental than singleton Socrates. Therefore, the relation of fundamentality may well be something other than factive grounding. I remain neutral here on whether these other relations can be analyzed in terms of factive grounding, with factive grounding thereby being the most fundamental fundamentality relation. The point is just that there are relations other than factive grounding that are relevant to fundamentality. Therefore, it is better to treat what Hall means (and what I mean here) by "grounding"as a more general term for fundamentality.

This broader concept of "grounding"corresponds to Wilson's talk of "small-'g' grounding relations"(==Wilson 2014==), or to what Bennett calls "building relations"(==Making Things Up==). Following Bennett, under this conception, to say that a relation is a grounding relation is to say that it is a member of a set of relations that are *asymmetric* and *necessitating*.[^2] Some examples are composition, constitution, set-formation, (property) realization, causation, and maybe factive grounding. Every single instance of grounding relation produce a sense of fundamentality.

The point is that not all grounding relations are "beyond modality". Roughly, if $Rxy$ makes $\square (x \leftrightarrow y)$ true, then let's call the relation $R$ *mutually necessitating*.[^3] And Hall is only skeptical about grounding relations that are mutually necessitating.

In essence, Hall is saying that, given any mutually necessitating relation, we can always imagine many alternative structures. Say a binary asymmetric relation $R\subseteq D\times D$ is mutually necessitating. Then we can define inverse $R^{-1}=\{(x,y)\in D\times D \mid R(y,x)\}$. Given that $R^{-1}(x,y) \leftrightarrow R(y,x)$, it is easy to see $R^{-1}$ is also asymmetric and necessitating. Moreover, let $x\equiv_{\Box}y$ abbreviate $\Box(x\leftrightarrow y)$. $R$ lies inside the union of $\equiv_{\Box}$-classes, i.e. $R\subseteq\bigcup_{C\in D/\!\equiv_{\Box}}(C\times C)$. Hence within each $\equiv_{\Box}$-class $C$ of size $n$ one may independently pick for every unordered pair $\{u,v\}\subset C$ either $u\to v$, $v\to u$, or neither, producing $3^{\binom{n}{2}}$ asymmetric, necessitating relations on $C$. Whenever some $\equiv_{\Box}$-class has $n\ge 2$ there are therefore combinatorially many relations $R^{*}$ that (i) predicate over the same domain, (ii) are asymmetric and necessitating, yet (iii) are extensionally different from a given directed, necessitating $R$. Every single one of them specifies an alternative structure.

But Hall's argument *cannot* be extended to those grounding relations that are not mutually necessitating. Consider the previous example: particles arranged tablewise compose, and thus ground, the table.[^4] As long as we do not adopt mereological essentialism, the parts necessitate the whole, but the whole does not necessitate those specific parts. Therefore, material composition is not mutually necessitating.

Suppose that $a_{1},\dots,a_{n}$ are some objects, and $W$ is an $n$-place predicate expressing that $n$ objects stand in a certain arrangement. If, in fact, $a_{1},\dots,a_{n}$ arranged in way $W$ compose $b$, then the only necessary claim we seem entitled to is $\square\bigl(W(a_{1},\dots,a_{n}) \rightarrow E(b)\bigr).$ Could there be some arrangement $W'$ such that $a_{1},\dots,a_{n-1},b$ arranged in way $W'$ *compose\** $a_{n}$? Intuitively, there is no such arrangement $W'$ that can make "*compose\**" necessitating.[^5] If this is right, then "*compose\**" cannot be a composition relation, and thus not a grounding relation.

To illustrate this without too many complications, let $t$ be a particular table composed of two huge monads $l$ and $r$, which are respectively the left and right parts of the table. Intuitively, no matter how $l$ and $t$ are arranged, there is no guarantee that this particular $r$ must exist. For example, $t$ could still be $t$ if it is composed of $l$ and some particles arranged $r$-wise. (Again, I set aside mereological essentialism without argument here.) Hence "*compose\**" cannot be a necessitating relation. It follows that "*compose\**" cannot be a grounding relation. Only "compose"can. In this case, there is no alternative structure that can be adopted.[^6]

Now we have recovered some plausibility for {::M}. Nevertheless the generalized form of Hall's argument is directly targeting at the grounding relations that are mutually necessitating. In other words, the {::M}-supporters faces the following challenge:

{::The Challenge} For any mutually necessitating $x$ and $y$, if $x$ and $y$ have a metaphysical structure, what would be the metaphysical reason to rule out the alternative structures?

## Can the Challenge be answered?

Are there any possible sources in the current grounding literature that can answer this challenge? There surely are. But I first show that they fails, and then diagnose why they they fail. Given my diagnosis, I present my answer to {::The Challenge}.

What could rule out the alternative structures? We cannot say the following: 

- The alternative $R^{*}$ relations do not exist, and thus the alternative structures do not exist. 

This is because the official ontology for the grounding project is *easy ontology*: everything that we can meaningfully talk about, including abstract entities or fictional objects, trivially exists (==Schaffer 2009==). In order to sustain {::M}, what we need to say instead is the following: 

- All the alternative structures are fully grounded in something epistemological. What makes the deep metaphysical structure stand out is that, it is grounded in something from the world.[^7]

In other words, as long as we can find something from the world that determines a *unique* direction among all the mutually necessitating relations, then {::The Challenge} is answered, and {::M} is sustained.

But if grounding facts are grounded by something in the world, then it leads to infinite regression. Assume $\Gamma'$ grounds the grounding fact that $\Gamma < P$, then the fact that $\Gamma' \prec (\Gamma \prec Q)$ is in turn a grounding fact. Given that grounding fact are grounded, then we still need a further ground for $\Gamma' \prec (\Gamma \prec Q)$. To solve this problem, Bennett (==by our bootstraps==) argued that, if $\Gamma \prec P$, then $\Gamma \prec (\Gamma \prec P)$, $\Gamma \prec (\Gamma \prec (\Gamma \prec P))$, and so on ad infinitum. This suggestion still leads to infinite regression. But it is not a vicious infinite regression, because it does not infinitely expand what there is, and every question "what grounds the grounding fact?" gets an answer.

This solution has been adopted by Dasgupta 2014 and Litland 2017. But why exactly can $\Gamma$ do all this work? Bennett only said it's because it is "part of what it is to be" (==Making Things Up, p. 196==). What does that mean?

Litland (==meta-ground==) takes Bennett to be talking about *essence*. Schaffer (==metaphysical dependence, grounding, and reduction, esp. fn. 22==) once adopted an essence-based view. Fine (==Ontological Dependence==) also offers the formulation $x \preceq y \ \mathrel{=_{df}}\ \Box_{x}(y=y)$. ( $\Box_x$ means "is necessary in virtue of $x$'s nature"). In a nutshell, these essence-based views fix grounding facts by appealing to *essence*. If we can fix essence, then the deep metaphysical structure can also be uniquely picked out, and {::The Challenge} is answered.

But what is *essence*? The idea goes back to Aristotle: essence is "the what-it-is-to-be" (τὸ τί ἦν εἶναι). An object $x$ can lose accidental properties and remain $x$; if it loses an essential property, it ceases to exist. In more modern terms: if (P) is essential to $x$, there is no possible world in which $\neg Px$ is true. In other words, the essence of $x$ determines the trans-world identity conditions for $x$. If the essence of $x$ is fixed, then the worlds in which $x$ exist are fixed.

However, it directly follows from*Quantifier Variance* that cross-world identity can vary with our semantic choices. Let me explain why by presenting the familiar *Quantifier Variance*–style argument. Here, I assume metasemantic principle of interpretive charity. What's that? Roughly: when interpreting others, we should not saddle them with obvious a priori mistakes if a more charitable interpretation is available. For example, suppose there are Martians as intelligent as we are, but they use "+" in a way that would make many of their claims false unless we interpret their '+' as quus. ($a$ quus $b$ is 5 if $a=68,b=57$; $a$ quus $b$ is a plus b if otherwise). Then we should read take their "+" to mean quus, not plus.

Now apply this to essence. Suppose two parties disagree about the essence of Socrates. A says Socrates's essence is his wisdom. B says it is his haircut. They will then disagree about whether there is a possible world where Socrates is unwise or has a different haircut. Given interpretive charity, B should interpret the meaning of A's utterance "There is a world where Socrates has a different haircut" as: "There is a world containing an individual $x$ suitably similar to Socrates in some relevant ways, but with a different haircut." And for A's utterance "There is no possible world where Socrates is not wise," B should charitably interpret A as restricting their possible-world quantifier according to A's semantic rule. Similarly, A should also interpret the truth condition of B's utterance in the same way. Given these, A and B will agree on the truth of all their utterances. Therefore, their dispute is merely verbal, due to alternative meaning of "essence". And there is no theoretical reason to say either A's or B's language is flawed.[^8]

Given this argument, we can see that there is no way to previlige a specific set of possible world where $x$ exists. To repeat, if the essence of $x$ is fixed, then the worlds in which $x$ exist are fixed. Then modus tollens, the essence of $x$ is *not* fixed. There could be alternative essence. And therefore the essence-based account cannot be used to rule out alternative structure. {::The Challenge} is not answered.

Schaffer (==laws for metaphysical explanation==) later dropped the essence-based account and adopted a law-based account. The thought is that whenever we say the essence of something grounds a grounding fact, we need a further metaphysical law to connect essence with that grounding fact. So the laws of metaphysics must be fundamental and ungrounded. This is plausible, but how could we fix laws of metaphysics? Schaffer appealed to metaphysical explanation -- Well, this is exactly where Hall's argument applies. And in general, this is not an uncommon move. Any account of law (esp. laws of nature) usually appeal to things like unification and explanatory power. Therefore I cannot see how law-based account can answer the {::The Challenge}.

## The root of the problem

But maybe we need to take one step back and see the why current grounding literatures fail to answer {::The Challenge}. 

The gist of Hall's challenge is simple. Imagine a creature whose language contains "grounding" that plays the same role in their metaphysics as our "grounding" does in our metaphysics. However, their "grounding" has a different structure. If we are justified to say that grounding structure is a deep, worldly feature, then we must be able to show why the creature's concept is objectively wrong. Crucially, the reason we provide must not be symmetric: it can't be a reason the creature could also use against us (e.g., "it violates *our* intuitions"). As the previous sections have shown, it seems we cannot find such a non-question-begging reason in the current way of establishing grounding as a deep worldy structure.

It seems the only hope for finding this kind of non-symmetric reason would be the following: the world itself could somehow teach us which "fundamentality" is the correct use. But the challenges from imagining strange creatures essentially press the following question: if we were to throw away some of our intuitions, would the world still be able to teach us anything?

Maybe the world can teach us physics. We naturally think that changing inertial reference frames is just a sheer transformation, and the speed of light would depend on the observer's motion. But empirical facts tell us that, surprisingly, our intuition is wrong. No matter how we change our reference frames, the speed of light remains invariant. Therefore, whenever we try to vary the speed of light, the world can in principle teaches us that, the alternative meaning is incorrect.

But metaphysics relies on a priori deduction, not empirical discovery. And please recall a simple, logical truth:  Ultimately all reliable deduction must be derived from intuitive presuppositions. We cannot establish anything if we throw away all of our intuitions (or dispositions, sentiments, etc.). In a slogan: ***If we are willing to throw away all of our intuitions, the world cannot teach us metaphysics.***

But should we throw away all of our intuitions when we do metaphysics? "Yes, we should throw away all of our intuition.", according to a hard-core conception of metaphysics, "How we think has nothing to do with *the world*. Therefore, 'the world' cannot carry any a priori information that comes from our intuition."

But this is the wrong conception of *the world*. Assume $A$ and $B$ are two *inconsistent* sentences about the world. Anyone would agree that we must deny at least one of them, because they are inconsistent. But this justification rely on the following presupposition: *If a theory is inconsistent, then it is not a true metaphysical theory.*  But what justifies this? The only reason that I can conceive of is that, *we cannot coherently adopt such an inconsistent theory*. But this justification is not available for the hard-core metaphysicians, because "inconsistent theories are not adoptable" doesn't entail that "the world is consistent".[^9] Therefore, according to the hard-core metaphysicians, we do not have to deny $A$ or $B$. Maybe the "true metaphysics" really is somehow inconsistent.

But this sounds insane. At least for metaphysics in the analytic tradition, the referent of "the world" never entertains the possibility that, it might be inconsistent. Indeed, if we allow this possibility, then I don't know if we can say anything meaningful at all about the world. If we are not allowed to derive anything about the world from our intuition, then this kind of metaphysics can only belong to God, not to human beings. For human beings, then, we should pursue human knowledge and understand reality in a human way, not in God's way. Therefore, if metaphysics is to be a subject of human inquiry at all, it must accept our human limitations.

## The rational constraint on the world

Now you may ask, so what a priori information does "the world" carries, then? The previous argument from inconsistency shows that, we mean by "the world" must be constrained by our rationality. But consistency is not the only constraint. I believe the following is also an indispensable constraint: the world is such that, we are rational agents. Given this constraint, we are objectively rational agents.

Arguably, there are different senses of "rational agency". For the word limit, I have to truncate the discussion about it. But as long as we can distinguish clear cases of rational agency, it will suffice for the purpose here.

Going back to Aristotle, again. Aristotle appears to also follow the constraint I suggest here in Chapter 9 of _De Interpretatione_. There, he rejects the principle of bivalence due to our deliberation and action. He argues that, deliberation and action requires that, propositions about the future must be open (19a10). Then they cannot have a truth value now (19a26). Therefore the principle of bivalence is false. However, Aristotle's argument seems to epistemic instead of metaphysical. When he writes that "what will be has an origin both in deliberation and in action" (19a6-9), the plausible interpretation is that our *beliefs* about the future originate from these rational activities, not the future state of affairs itself. If so, his argument is best understood as follows: it is impossible for us to rationally *believe* that the future is predetermined while simultaneously viewing ourselves as rational agents who deliberate. Therefore, by our rational agency, the world cannot be such that bivalence is true.

No doubt, this should be count as "an epistemic approach". However, what I am arguing here is that, if metaphysics is possible, then no sharp boundary could be drawn between metaphysics and epistemology. In other words, {::M} and {::E} could be compatible.

And this rational constraint should also override any Quinean methodology for establishing grounding structure. According to the Quinean view, the best theory of grounding structure has the most pragmatic virtues like simplicity, elegance and explanatory power. But what how could these pragmatic virtues more valuable than our own rational agency? In addition, this constraint has several theoretical utilities. It has direct consequence in the metaphysics of causation, time and personal identity.[^10] But for the scope of the paper I have to drop the discussion about them.

Now, can rational agency help us establish worldly and objective fundamentality? I think it can. I suggest that our agency gives an agency-based interpretation to the interventionist approach to fundamentality. According to this approach, we can objectively rule out alternative structures.

## Epistemical, yet metaphysical grounding structure

Let me give a quick introduction to this interventionism. This approach was developed by ==Pearl and Woodword== to use Structural Equation Models (SEM) to analyze causation. But this analysis has been extended to grounding in recent years, mostly by ==Schaffer grounding in the image of causation== and ==Wilson metaphysical causation==.

The most basic interventionist analysis is this: $A$ grounds $B$ if intervention on $A$'s state will change $B$'s state. The latter part can be formalized and evaluated by SEM. Let's quickly go through the basic formalization to get the gist. A SEM is $M=\{U,V,F\}$ where $U$ is a set of exogenous variables, $V$ is a set of endogenous variables, and $F$ is a set of structural equations that determines the value of endogenous variables by exogenous variables. A structural equation takes the form of $X=f(Y)$, where "$=$" does not mean equality, but means value assignment (like in programming). $X=f(Y)$ means that the value of $X$ is set to $f(Y)$. Given an assignment of exogenous variables $u$, we will have all the values in $M$ fixed. Assume $A$ is $a$ and $B$ is $b$ in the actual world. To analyze whether $A$ causes $B$, we *surgically* set the value of $A$ to $a' \neq a$  and therefore produce a new counterfactual model $M_{A=a'}$. Given the same assignment $u$, if value of $B$ in $M_{A=a'}$ is not $b$, then we say $A$ grounds $B$.

The hard question, however, is how to choose the *appropriate* model for analysis. In the case of causation, we can do intervention tests to empirically discover the appropriate equation. But it's not clear how to do intervention tests on singleton Socrates. Assume we choose a model where the structural equation is $\{Socreates\}=Socrates$. When we intervene on $Socrates$, the value of $\{Socreates\}$ would change. When we intervene on $\{Socreates\}$, the value of $Socrates$ would not. Therefore, we can easily get the result that Socrates grounds singleton Socrates.

But the problem is, why do we choose $\{Socreates\}=Socrates$ as the *appropriate* equation? Recall the previous challenge. An alternative structure would be $Socrates=\{Socreates\}$. Why is alternative structure problematic? I have not seen a satisfying reply in the current literature. For example, Schaffer ==grounding in the image of causation== seems to adopt a neutral position about model choice, and thus did not provide reason against Hall's skepticism.

Recall Bennett's formulation: "building", "making" and "generative". All of these are agential concepts. I believe that, Bennett's intuition aligns with my analysis. There must be something related to agency that leads to the direction that we want. Informally speaking, we can in some sense build singleton Socrates out of Socrates, but we cannot build Socrates out of singleton Socrates.

Let me explicate this intuition into a sketchy argument. Surgical intervention depends on agency.[^11] But agency depends on intention formation. If an intervention is inconceivable, then there is no way to form an intention. If there cannot be such an intention, then the intervention is impossible. 

Now I take it to be obvious that we cannot conceive of a surgical intervention on singleton Socrates. If we add a new member to singleton Socrates, it seems it just would become a new set. And we can intervene on Socrates, or maybe on set theory. But these are all indirect intervention, and thus not surgical. In other words, Therefore, a surgical intervention on singleton Socrates is impossible.

If an intervention is impossible for a variable, then the interventionist counterfactual "If we intervene on singleton Socrates, then the value of Socrates would change" is ill-posed. Therefore, it is impossible to establish $Socreates=\{Socrates\}$, because there is no way to intervene on $\{Socreates\}$.

In other words, the reply I suggest to {::The Challenge} is as follows: we cannot accept the alternative structure where $\{Socrates\}$ grounds Socrates. Why? Because if a creature could accept this structure, then what they mean by "agency" must be fundamentally different from ours. **In our term, they are not rational agents. Maybe they are rational schmagents.**  But the rational constraint on the world oblige us to have rational agency. In other words, the world we live in must have a structure that we can possible act upon. But the world with an alternative structure is not a world that we can act upon. Therefore we should reject this as a plausible view for our metaphysics.

## Conclusion

Let me recap. Hall proposed the epistemic approach to ground, and he take this as a rival approach against the metaphysical approach to ground. However, I show that, first, his argument only challenges to a limited type of grounding, i.e. the grounding relations that are mutually necessitating. Second, by appealing to the rational constraint on the world, I argue that Hall's challenge can be met. By doing so, the metaphysical approach to ground is sustained. And it perfectly respects the force of Hall's position, because it is compatible with Hall's epistemic approach to ground. When Hall says "A grounding claim counts as explanatory ... in virtue of the kind of epistemic benefit it confers on its recipients", the proper understanding for "epistemic benefit" is the following: it enhance our ability to know how to manipulate the world.

Does it sound like cheating? If you feel like so, then the alternative seems more devastating: metaphysics seems impossible altogether. Throughout the history of philosophy, there has always been a strong impulse to secure an absolute truth that is objective and eternal. But to repeat, ultimately all possible philosophical conclusions must be derived from intuitive presuppositions. We cannot establish anything if we throw away all of our intuitions (or dispositions, sentiments, etc.). If so, then we at least should not abandon the kind of intuition that we cherish most in our ordinary life: our own rational agency. To adopt a worldview that eliminates this that is, for us, simply insane.



[^1]: On quantifier variance, see Hirsch ==citations==.
[^2]: In fact, Bennett's criterion is asymmetric, necessitating and*generative*. However, generative seems to be a vacuous condition. According to Bennett, the generative requirement is that, "if a builds$grounds$ b, then b exists (obtains, is instantiated . . . ) because a does, b exists (obtains, is instantiated) in virtue of a, a makes b exist (obtain, be instantiated), and so forth."==citation==. But this is directly under Hall's attack: whether b obtains in virtue of a is a matter of explanation, and explanation is a matter of understanding. In fact, Bennett herself admit that what counts generative may be arbitrary, conventional, framework-dependent and "nothing further to be said" (==p. 59==). Therefore, for any asymmetric and necessitating relation, we can always imagine an alien creature that think it is generative. Therefore, if we want to be a robust realist about fundamentality, being generative cannot be the right way to fix grounding relation.
[^3]: This formulation is formally problematic when $x$ and $y$ are not sentences. But there are multiple obvious ways to patch this. For example, if $x$ and $y$ are entities, then we can say $\square (E(x) \leftrightarrow E(y))$. If $x$ and $y$ are predicates, then we can say $\forall \alpha (x(\alpha) \leftrightarrow y(\alpha))$.
[^4]: According to Schaffer's priority monism (==citation==), $x$ composes $y$ does not follow that $x$ grounds $y$. But let's leave this view aside for now. We can adopt Bennett's strategy to say, there are difference sense of grounding (or in Bennett's terminology, "building"). What I am talking about here, is $x\text{ grounds}_{compose} \text{ }y$, not $x\text{ grounds}_{\text{factively ground}} \text{ }y$. Therefore, Schaffer's argument is not relevant here.
[^5]: There are some technical issue here. For example, if we allowed $W' \equiv \lambda x_{1}\dots x_{n}.\,E(a_{n})$ then we would likewise obtain $\square\bigl(W'(a_{1},\dots,a_{n-1},b) \rightarrow E(a_{n})\bigr).$ So $W'$ must not be a gerrymandered relation that merely smuggles in the existence of $a_{n}$. It should instead be the right kind of n-place predicate that can count as "a way of arranging $n$ number of entities". I won't try to formalize this here.
[^6]: One move is to say, some alien could say "*compose\**" is a "*grounding\* relation*" because it "*necessitates\**". But we are talking about grounding and fundamentality, not "*grounding\**" or "*fundamentality\**". A grounding relation must be necessitating, not *necessitating\**. This line of reply is not yet fully justified yet. You may ask, why a grounding relation must be necessitating, not *necessitating\**? The answer will be clearer near the end of the paper.
[^7]: But maybe grounding facts are ungrounded at all? There are well-known issues for saying this. First, the following principle seems intuitive: object $x$ is fundamental if $x$ occurs in fundamental facts. And intuitively, everything occurs in some grounding fact. Now, if grounding facts are ungrounded, then it follows that everything is fundamental. This sounds wrong.  Another issue is that, it is incompatible with the principle that, fundamen­tal facts are freely modally recombinable. If $P \prec Q$ and $P$ are all fundamental, then according to modal recombination, we can separate $P \prec Q$ from $P$, i.e. $\diamond (P \prec Q \land \neg P)$. But this is inconsistent the facitivity of grounding: if grounding fact obtains, then the ground (and the grounded) must *in fact* obtains, i.e. $\square (P \prec Q \rightarrow P)$. Given these problems, people tend to say grounding facts are grounded by some other fact.
[^8]: Again, more explanation on how this translation works and why this is a verbal dispute, see ==Hirsch citations==
[^9]: The world is "inconsistent" is not a good formulation. In theory, consistency is a syntactic notion. It is a categorical mistake to apply it to the world. Maybe the better way to formulate the sentence is as follows: the world is such that, the "true" theory about the world will come out inconsistent. But for brevity, I will use the term "inconsistent world" to mean this.
[^10]: Hirsch (==selves in doubt ch. 3==) discussed how this constraint applies to personal identity.
[^11]: Let me briefly sketch the reason I say this. There is a well-known issue that, using SEM to analyze causation is circular because intervention itself is a causal notion. Modern interventionists like Pearl and Woodword tend to admit this circularity without further explanation. But I believe more can be said. In fact, agency-based interpretations were actually the predecessors of contemporary interventionism. ==von Wright (1971); Peter Menzies and Huw Price (1993)== developed agent-based accounts that aimed to reduce causation to agency. I believe this reduction cannot work. The way I suggest, however, is this. Intervention is best understood as "changing the state of an event *by will*". Therefore, surgical intervention is agential causation. And SEM at bottom analyzes non-agential causation in terms of agencial causation. Given that the rational constraint require us to have rational agency, there is no problematic circularity to use SEM to analyze causation.