## Intro

Over the past twenty years or so, many have grown tired of Quinean ontology and Carnapian deflationism (==citation==). People have found that even if we figure out what indispensably exists, we still seem to miss something important: what is more fundamental than what, and what is most fundamental. As a result, many have rallied under the banner of fundamentality. There has been a revolution in metaphysics since then.

This revolution clearly is one step forward from Quinean ontology, with a well-motivated reason. Yet it is not immediately clear how it avoids Carnapian deflationism. But... Wait a second. Why do we need to avoid deflationism? 

What I mean by Carnapian deflationism, really? I mean roughly the following: there is no deep truth about fundamentality. $x$ is more fundamental than $y$ is merely conceptual. If we have different concepts, then $y$ could also be more "fundamental" than $x$.

Now it seems clear why we want to avoid it. Fundamentality is a legitimate part of ordinary discourse, and we have strong intuitions that this is some deep, worldly feature. Isn't it obvious that, atoms are more basic than chairs? In other words, deflationism runs against our realist intuition about fundamentality.

But aren't modern deflationists also realists? A modern deflationist would surely grant us that, given a language, it is true to say $x$ is more fundamental than $y$. And given this statement is true, fundamentality is real. So what intuition is in conflict here, exactly?

If we look at the literature on fundamentality, we will frequently find the phrase "*worldly*" and "*objective*" (==There should be a lot more, but here are a few examples: "objective": Thompson Grounding and Explanation, Sidelle The Grounding Mystique, Fabrice Correia and Benjamin Schnieder Grounding: an opinionated introduction Jon Erling Litland Meta-ground; "worldly" or "in the world": Paul Audi A clarification and defense of the notion
of grounding, Kit Fine Guide to Ground==). And deflationary account of fundamentality is denied because fundamentality is supposed to be *worldly and objective*. Why a deflationary account fails to be *worldly and objective*? What do we even mean when we use this phrase, exactly? And can this *worldliness and objectivity* be defended at all?

This paper aims to explicate this issue. I argue that current accounts of fundamentality fail to justify themselves as *objective*, and that the root of the problem is a mistaken conception of being *worldly*. I then argue that, under the right conception, we can adopt a interventionist account that secures a *worldly and objective* notion of fundamentality.

## Articulating Objectivity

### Is Objectivity a chimera?

What is "worldly and objective," really? Turns out it's pretty hard to articulate. A first approximation could be as follows: If something is subjective, then, to a large degree, we can say whatever we feel like saying. But if it is *objective*, then there is really something *out there in the world* that restricts us from saying otherwise.

This first approximation seems intuitively right, but it cannot bear scrutiny. Aren't we also part of the world? If so, then the facts about how we feel and what we believe are, nevertheless, also out there in the world. Indeed, Rosen (==citation==) argued that if we adopt a naturalistic conception of our mind, there seems no way to articulate a sense of objectivity that is metaphysically interesting.

According to Rosen, objectivity could be used to predicate over an methodology:*Methodological objectivity* means that an inquiry resists personal bias, prejudice, etc. But Rosen immediately dismisses this sense of objectivity for two reasons. *First*, it is impossible (p. 284). Any inquiry must have a substantial starting point, and there is no way to guarantee that the starting point is not biased. *Second*, it is not "the sense of objectivity that interests us" (p. 286). The interesting sense of objectivity is related to assertions, not inquiries. For example, we might say it is subjective that the Mona Lisa is a beautiful painting.

*Metaphysical objectivity* is closer to the sense that interests us. There might be a subjective realm and an objective realm of the world. For example, phenomenal states might be said to belong to a private and subjective realm. Therefore, facts about phenomenal states might be subjective in a sense.[^1] But Rosen also dismisses this sense of objectivity for being irrelevant. Even if that realm is, in a sense, subjective, the fact that *I'm in pain* seems perfectly objective in the interesting sense.

Then Rosen surveys several influential attempts to explicate the interesting sense of objectivity, including mind-independence, response-independence, and judgment-independence. But none seems to quite capture it. In a nutshell, Rosen keeps returning to the same complaint: *once we have specified the asserted fact, there seems to be no room for it to be less than objective*. An assertion that involves indexicals that make reference to our mental states, our responses, or our beliefs is nevertheless perfectly objective. Afterall, an assertion picks out a fact. What could it even mean to say there are "subjective facts"? Isn't that plainly self-contradictory?

In other words, according to Rosen, *methodological objectivity* is impossible and irrelevant, and *objectivity relating to facts* is trivially obtained. Rosen then concludes his paper with a challenge: as long as we take the mind to be part of the world, it seems we cannot accuse any assertion for being subjective. But surely we can say that *the Mona Lisa is a beautiful painting* is subjective. Did Rosen miss something?

### Objectivity is Semantic Invariance

Where does the subjectivity of the Mona Lisa's beauty come from? Assume we stipulate that *"beautiful"* precisely means *painted by Davinci*. Then the Mona Lisa is objectively beautiful, because it was objectively painted by Da Vinci. Subjectivity seems to disappear once I stipulate the meaning of "beautiful."

Where did subjectivity go? People will arguably contend the following: my stipulation is entirely subjective. I believe this is right. The Mona Lisa's beauty is subjective because there are other equally good candidate meanings for "beautiful". In other words, the meaning of "beautiful" could reasonably vary leads to its subjectivity.

But the semantic variance within a specific language is too narrow for the sense of "worldly and objective" relevant to metaphysics. If this is what we mean by "worldly and objective", then the only remaining task for metaphysicians is to come up with a fully precisified language, no matter how arbitrary it is. But that is absurd. What we want to establish in metaphysics is something that remain constant even if we change our way of speaking. Therefore, subjectivity in the relevant sense should also include possible semantic variance that is not limited to a language.

For example, an important milestone in metaontology is Hirsch's thesis of *Quantifier Variance*: The meaning of the quantifier can vary, and there are infinitely many equally good candidate meanings. But *Quantifier Variance* does not require actual semantic variance, but only possible semantic variance. Assume the quantifier in ordinary English has only one precise meaning. It does not follow that, our quantificational structure is worldly and objective. This is because, say, mereological nihilists' use of their quantifier is also metaphysically reasonable. Hirsch (==citation==) has extensively argued that any fact expressible in ordinary language can also be expressed in the mereological nihilists' English, and vice versa.[^2] Therefore, there is no metaphysical reason to reject mereological nihilists' quantifier. If there is no reason to reject other reasonable variations of the quantifier, then it is pretty clear that we should not take our quantificational structure as the worldly quantificational structure.[^3]

To generalize this line of thought, I believe the best way to capture the interesting sense of "worldly and objective" is as follows:

- X is worldly and objective only if there is only one reasonable meaning of 'X'.

Returning to Rosen's puzzle, he missed the following point: whatever is in the world is trivially objective, but our ways of referring to those things can be subjective. Using Ted Sider's way of speaking, a word's meaning carves out something in the world. We may say, figuratively, that what is carved has a certain "logical shape." The question is not whether the thing is in the world. It obviously is. But what we intend to carve out could have an alternative shape.

This reveals the conflict between our realist intuition and deflationism. What is at issue seems that, maybe deflationism can claim themselves to be *worldly*, but they are *subjective* in the relevant sense. The question, then, is what could prevent something we intend from taking an alternative shape.

## How to Ensure Worldly Objectivity?

Traditionally, this is guaranteed by *reference magnetism*. But this cannot work. This has been repeatedly pointed out by Hirsch (==many citations==) and Warren (==2023==). In the case where language use can determine the reference, magnetism cannot override it. Assume there are Martians seems as intelligent as we are, but they use '+' in a way that we need to interpret it as quus to make their utterance come out true. In this case, we should say the Martians are using '+' to mean quus. And in the cases of vagueness, like bald, where use cannot determine reference, we think it is just indeterminate. In other words, when language use determines the reference, magnetism does not exist. When the use does not determine the reference, magnetism does not exist. Therefore, magnetism does not exist.[^4]

The initial motivation to posit reference magnetism is to explain why our '+' means plus, not quus. It seems our linguistic behavior does not determine plus, while there is a strong impulse to say the meaning of '+' is plus, not quus. But "linguistic behavior" might be a too narrow scope about language use. Language use should include our intention, and our intention is enough to say '+' means plus. A lot more can be said, but for now I believe this should suffice to dismiss reference magnetism.

Let's rewind: what would prevent semantic variance? In a trivial sense, of course, any symbol can vary in meaning; "fundamentality" could just mean "hello", for instance. But that isn't the kind of reasonable variation at issue here. What counts as a "reasonable variation" may be hard to precisify, but I assume here what is essential for (relative) fundamentality is that it has formal features sufficiently similar to transitivity, asymmetry, necessitation, and so on.[^5] Nothing important hangs on this assumption, since the variation I discuss in this paper has these formal features.

That said, it still seems somewhat hopeless to say "fundamentality" does not vary in meaning. But let's gain some hope from an example. We naturally think that changing inertial reference frames is just a sheer transformation, and the speed of light would depend on the observer's motion. But empirical facts tell us that, surprisingly, our intuition is wrong. No matter how we change our reference frames, the speed of light remains invariant. Therefore, whenever we try to vary the meaning of the speed of light, the world can in principle teaches us that, the alternative meaning is incorrect.[^6]

In other words, the intuitive idea is, if it is *objective*, then there is really something *out there in the world* that restricts us from saying otherwise. In other words, the world can somehow teach us whether we are getting the right concept. If we are using a wrong concept, the world will correct us.

## Can the world teach us fundamentality?

Can the world teach us the right concept for fundamentality? Now it's time to see how fundamentality is analyzed in contemporary literatures. The mainstream view is to use grounding relation to analyze relative fundamentality, and then use relative fundamentality to analyze absolute fundamentality. But I wish to start with Sider's account, for many points will be clearer after the discussion of Sider's account.

### Learning Naturalness from the world?

According to Sider, the fundamentality project aims at figuring out what is the most fundamental. And the most fundamental layer of the reality is the most natural. [^7] The reason I want to start with Sider's account is because it has a compelling reason to support objectivity: Goodman's riddle of induction. 

The basic idea is that, a concept like "grue" must be flawed because it leads to a wrong induction. Therefore the world teaches us that some concepts are objectively better than others. To recap the riddle: Since all emeralds observed before 2050 are green, these emeralds are also by definition "grue" (where grue means green and observed before 2050, or blue otherwise). If we use grue for induction, the grue-induction would tell us that the next emerald we see after 2050 will be grue. However, we intuitively know the next emerald will be green, meaning it will not be grue. Since the green-induction and the grue-induction are formally the same, the problem does not lie in the structure of induction. Then the concept "grue" itself must be the problem.

But I think the world cannot teach grue-speakers that grue-induction is problematic. And therefore, for grue-speakers, there is nothing wrong with grue. Let's consider two cases.

**Case 1**: In the first case, *we* assume that "being green" is an essential property of the kind "emerald." But why would *grue-speakers* accept this? By the same token, they might take "being grue" as the essence of an "emerald." If we showed them a green emerald in 2051, they would simply say, "*This isn't an emerald, because it's not grue.*" In that case, their induction is perfectly reliable: everything they call an "emerald" is, in fact, grue. Of course, this scenario is overly simple because it assumes the kind "emerald" is defined solely by its color. If so, the disagreement becomes a matter of a priori definition, not a failure of induction.

**Case 2**: Assume both we and the grue-speakers agree that emeralds are defined by their chemical structure ZYX, not their color. Through induction, our science posit a law of nature that "*ZYX necessitates greenness.*" In grue-science, however, induction would posit a law that "*ZYX necessitates grue-ness.*" Assume that when 2050 arrives, the next emerald turns out green. Therefore, grue-law will be falsified. Then it follows that, the laws of nature is simpler when formulated in terms of green. Thus, the world teaches us that, green is objectively better than grue. 

But this argument doesn't seem right for two reasons. First, Inductive failure is normal. A predicate can be natural, but simply fail to apply to the induction. For example, we might inductively conclude that all swans are white. The discovery of a black swan doesn't make the property "white" is objectively worse than "white or black". It just means we hit on a false hypothesis.

Second, the whole argument relies on the presupposition that, in grue-science, the grue-speakers start with the hypothesis *ZYX necessitates grue-ness.* But given they take the property "green if observed before 2050, or blue otherwise" to be simpler than "green", why wouldn't they instead adopt the hypothesis "*ZYX necessitates grue-ness if observed before 2050, or bleen-ness if unobserved before 2050*" as simpler than "*ZYX necessitates grue-ness*"?

To prevent further complications, assume that ZYX is invariant in both our law and the grue-law. Let us even grant that the grue-speakers initially start with the hypothesis *ZYX necessitates grue-ness*, and that this hypothesis is falsified by the first emerald after 2050. After further work, grue scientists discover that the corrected grue-law, like "*ZYX necessitates grue-ness if observed before 2050, or bleen-ness if unobserved before 2050*", is the right one.

Now, the previous argument runs, our law "*ZYX necessitates green*" is objectively simpler than this corrected grue-law. Therefore, green exhibits objective similarity, not grue. Why? Because the properties in the simplest laws of nature 'carve nature at its joints'.

But why would the grue-speakers accept this argument? My stipulation is that grue-speakers have different intuitions about simplicity and similarity from ours. They take properties, that are disjunctive in our terms, to be genuinely simple and similar; likewise they treat disjunctive propositions as simpler. Given this stipulation, they would say their corrected law is actually simpler than ours. Therefore, grue and bleen are more privileged than green.

In other words, if the meaning of "the best system" could vary, then the best system of laws of nature cannot be objectively established. If natural properties are specified by the laws of nature, while the laws of nature can vary in different frameworks, then "naturalness" can vary in different frameworks. Therefore, even if the grue-speakers agree with us that, natural properties are metaphysically privileged, the world cannot force the grue-speakers to give up a different extension of "naturalness".[^8]

### Learning Grounding from the world?

Maybe "naturalness" is already too niche. Indeed, the most orthodoxical way to establish fundamentality is through grounding: If $x$ grounds $y$, then $x$ is more fundamental than $y$; And if $x$ is ungrounded, then $x$ is fundamental. Therefore, if the meaning about fundamentality were to be fixed, then grounding facts must be somehow fixed. But what fixes the grounding facts?

Before going into any specific account, I will lay out the challenge first. Whenever people talk about grounding in the literature, there is one paradigm case: Socrates and singleton Socrates are mutually necessitating. But Socrates grounds $\{Socrates\}$, not the other way around. Bennett said this is an highly intuitive powerful example. I want to challenge exactly this.

Imagine a creature, maybe a robot called Robo, who perceives every object as a singleton set. For example, Robo directly perceives a table as $\{table\}$ and Socrates as $\{Socrates\}$. Only by theoretical reconstruction can Robo realize that what she perceives is necessarily related to the individual Socrates. For Robo, then, the individual we call Socrates is a theoretical construction from the entity she directly perceives. Therefore, from Robo's perspective, Socrates depends on $\{Socrates\}$.[^9] Can the world teach us that, there is something wrong with Robo's metaphysics?[^10]

Returning to the question: what fixes the grounding facts? Either we fix them by appeal to what grounding facts back, or by appeal to the grounds of the grounding facts themselves.[^11]

I do not think the former would work. Typically, we say that grounding facts back explanations or definitions, but neither can fix grounding facts. For definitions, we might say that grounding facts back real definitions. But there are also nominal definitions. For example, we might nominally define "A is on the left side of B" as "B is on the right side of A," and define "B is on the right side of A" as "A is on the left side of B." This kind of circularity probably appears occasionally in dictionaries. But as long as grounding is asymmetric, at most one can be the "real definition". Similarly, explanation is (in)famously context-sensitive (==citation to van Fraassen, Kitcher==): it depends on what we are emphasizing, our audience's interests and so on. Unless we have some objective way to pick out a "real definition" or a "real explanation" without appealing to fundamentality, we cannot say there's anything wrong with Robo's metaphysics.

Now the pressure is on the ground of the grounding fact. What fact could that be? To prevent vicious infinite regress, Bennett (==by our bootstraps==) argued that, if $\Gamma < P$, then $\Gamma < (\Gamma < P)$, $\Gamma < (\Gamma < (\Gamma < P))$, and so on ad infinitum. This suggestion has been adopted by ==Dasgupta 2014 and Litland 2017==. But why exactly can $\Gamma$ do all this work? Bennett only said it's because it is "part of what it is to be" (==Making Things Up, p. 196==).

Litland (==meta-ground==) takes Bennett to be talking about *essence*: $P < Q \rightarrow \square_{P}(P \rightarrow P < Q)$. Schaffer (==metaphysical dependence, grounding, and reduction, esp. fn. 22==) also once adopted an essence-based view, $\square_{x} P \rightarrow \square_{x}(P < P)$. Fine (==Ontological Dependence==) also offered a formulation: $x \ge y \ \mathrel{=_{df}}\ \Box_{x}(y=y)$. In a nutshell, these essence-based views fix grounding facts by appeal to *essence*. If Robo's metaphysics is wrong, then it's because Robo made mistakes about essence.

But can essence be *worldly and objective*? I believe not. I take Fine (==Essence and Modality==) to be right to say that *de re* modality must be analyzed by essence. If essence cannot vary, then *de re* modal claims cannot vary. But if *de re* modal claims cannot vary, then trans-world identity cannot vary. However, it directly follows from *Quantifier Variance* that trans-world identity can vary. After all, the meaning of "identity" varies with the meaning of "exist". It is surprising that, in Hirsch's work, he discussed only actual identity, not trans-world identity. But as long as trans-world identity can vary, *de re* modality can vary. So essence is not worldly and objective.

Let me use the standard *Quantifier Variance*-style argument to illustrate this. Assume two parties disagree about the essence of Socrates. A says Socrates's essence is his wisdom. B says Socrates's essence is his haircut. Then they will disagree about whether there is a possible world where Socrates is wise, and whether there is a possible world where Socrates has a different haircut. For A's utterance "There is a possible world where Socrates has a different haircut", B can charitably interpret it as "There is a possible world with a unique $x$ such that $x$ is similar to Socrates in relevant ways but has a different haircut." And for A's utterance "There is no possible world where Socrates is not wise," B can charitably interpret A as restricting their possible-world quantifier according to A's semantic rule of essence. Therefore, the two parties are having a verbal dispute regarding *de re* modal claims because they adopt different meanings of essence.[^12]

An essence realist might appeal to explanation: Socrates can explain why singleton Socrates exists, but singleton Socrates cannot. But Robo would not accept this. Instead, they would accuse us with the same reason, since on their view singleton Socrates explains why Socrates exists. In other words, if Robo's attribution of essence is *objectively* flawed, the error cannot be symmetric. So appealing to explanation cannot work here, and I see no further way to defend robust realism about essence.

Schaffer (==laws for metaphysical explanation==) later dropped the essence-based account and adopted a law-based account. The thought is that whenever we say the essence of something grounds a grounding fact, we need a further metaphysical law to connect essence with that grounding fact. So the laws of metaphysics must be fundamental and ungrounded. This is plausible, but can law be objective? As argued earlier, grue-speakers can adopt an alternative system of laws without any problem. Similarly, Robo also adopts laws of metaphysics different from ours. Is Robo's metaphysical system not the best system? I see no reason to argue this, especially because the meaning of "best system" surely can vary.

Going back to Bennett, I think Bennett is secretly a deflationist. In Bennett ==by our bootstraps==, she already worries that her account seems to suggest grounding facts are knowable a priori. Thus, grounding fact depend on the meaning of the grounded. In Bennett ==making things up==, she develops an account of fundamentality in terms of "building relation". Yet this account is still deflationary.

Recall Bennett's account about building: a building relation has to be *directed*, *necessitating* and *generative*. The problem here is the generative requirement. According to Bennett, the generative requirement is that,

> (G) For all building relations B, and all x and y, x's B-ing y makes true certain explanatory and generative claims. For example, if a builds b, then b exists (obtains, is instantiated . . . ) because a does, b exists (obtains, is instantiated) in virtue of a, a makes b exist (obtain, be instantiated), and so forth. ==citation==

But Bennett concede that what counts generative may be arbitrary, conventional, framework-dependent and "nothing further to be said" (==p. 59==). In other words, Robo agree with us that $\text{Socrates} \in \{Socrates\}$. But what they disagree with us that set-formation is not generative. They think set-membership is generative instead. Bennett's account seems perfectly compatible with Robo's metaphysics.

## What do we mean by "the world"?

The gist of the tedious discussion above is simple. Imagine a creature whose language contains "fundamentality" that plays the same role in their metaphysics as our "fundamentality" does in our metaphysics. However, their "fundamentality" has a different extension. If we are justified to claim that fundamentality is a *worldly, objective feature*, then we must be able to show why the creature's concept is *objectively* wrong. Crucially, the reason we provide must not be symmetric: it can't be a reason the creature could also use against us (e.g., "it violates *our* intuitions"). As the previous sections have shown, it seems we cannot find such a non-question-begging reason in the current way of establishing fundamentality.

It seems the only hope for finding this kind of non-symmetric reason would be the following: the world itself could somehow teach us which "fundamentality" is the correct use. But the challenges from imagining strange creatures essentially press the following question: if we were to throw away some of our intuitions, would the world still be able to teach us anything? The upshot of the discussion is that *it would not*. In a slogan: ***If we are willing to throw away our intuitions, the world cannot teach us anything.***

I believe this slogan is true. But is there still hope to establish worldliness and objectivity?

In the previous discussion, I emphasized on objectivity but minimized the discussion of worldliness. But now it is the time when what we mean by "the world" matters. All the previous predicament comes from a simple logical truth: Ultimately all reliable philosophical conclusions must be deducted from intuitive presuppositions. If so, then we cannot establish anything if we throw away all of our intuitions. 

According to a hard-core conception of metaphysics, how we think has nothing to do with *the world*. Therefore, "the world" cannot carry any a priori information. If *objectivity* comes from *the world*, then given that metaphysics rely on a priori arguments, no metaphysics can be worldly and objective.

But this is the wrong conception of *the world*. Assume $A$ and $B$ are two *inconsistent* sentences about the world. Anyone would agree that we must deny at least one of them, because they are inconsistent. But this justification rely on the following presupposition: *If a theory is inconsistent, then it is not a true metaphysical theory.*  But what justifies this? The only reason that I can conceive of is that, *we cannot coherently adopt such an inconsistent theory*. But this justification is not available for the hard-core metaphysicians, because "inconsistent theories are not adoptable" doesn't entail that "the world is consistent".[^15] Therefore, according to the hard-core metaphysicians, we do not have to deny $A$ or $B$. Maybe the "true metaphysics" really is somehow inconsistent.

But this sounds insane. At least for metaphysics in the analytic tradition, the referent of "the world" never entertains the possibility that, it might be inconsistent. Indeed, if we allow this possibility, then I don't know if we can say anything meaningful at all about the world. If we are not allowed to derive anything about the world from our intuition, then this kind of metaphysics can only belong to God, not to human beings. For human beings, then, we should pursue human knowledge and understand reality in a human way, not in God's way. Therefore, if metaphysics is to be a subject of human inquiry at all, it must accept our human limitations.

### The constraint of rational agency

Now you may ask, so what information does "the world" carries, then? The previous argument from inconsistency shows that, we mean by "the world" must be constrained by our rationality. But consistency is not the only constraint. I believe the following is also an indispensable constraint: the world is such that, we are rational agents. And given this constraint, we are objectively rational agents.

Arguably, there are different senses of "rational agency". For the word limit, I have to truncate the discussion about it. But as long as we can distinguish clear cases of rational agency, it will suffice for the purpose of this paper.

Aristotle appears to follow the constraint I suggest here in Chapter 9 of _De Interpretatione_. There, he rejects the principle of bivalence due to our deliberation and action. He argues that, deliberation and action requires that, propositions about the future must be open (19a10). Then they cannot have a truth value now (19a26). Therefore the principle of bivalence is false. However, Aristotle's argument seems to epistemic instead of metaphysical. When he writes that "what will be has an origin both in deliberation and in action" (19a6-9), the plausible interpretation is that our *beliefs* about the future originate from these rational activities, not the future state of affairs itself. If so, his argument is best understood as follows: it is impossible for us to rationally *believe* that the future is predetermined while simultaneously viewing ourselves as rational agents who deliberate. Therefore, by our rational agency, the world cannot be such that bivalence is true.

This constraint should override any Quinean methodology for establishing fundamentality. According to the Quinean view, the best theory of fundamentality that has the most pragmatic virtues like simplicity, elegance and explanatory power. But what how could these pragmatic virtues more valuable than our own rational agency? In addition, this constraint has several theoretical utilities. It has direct consequence in the metaphysics of causation, time and personal identity.[^16] But for the scope of the paper I have to drop the discussion about them.

Now, can rational agency help us establish worldly and objective fundamentality? I think it can. I want to argue that our agency gives an agency-based interpretation to the interventionist approach to fundamentality. According to this approach, we can objectively rule out Robo's metaphysics.

## Objective and worldly fundamentality

Let me give a quick introduction to this interventionism. This approach was developed by ==Pearl and Woodword== to use Structural Equation Models (SEM) to analyze causation. But this analysis has been extended to grounding in recent years, mostly by ==Schaffer grounding in the image of causation== and ==Wilson metaphysical causation==.

The most basic interventionist analysis is this: $A$ grounds $B$ if intervention on $A$'s state will change $B$'s state. The latter part can be formalized and evaluated by SEM. Let's quickly go through the basic formalization to get the gist. A SEM is $M=\{U,V,F\}$ where $U$ is a set of exogenous variables, $V$ is a set of endogenous variables, and $F$ is a set of structural equations that determines the value of endogenous variables by exogenous variables. A structural equation takes the form of $X=f(Y)$, where "$=$" does not mean equality, but means value assignment (like in programming). $X=f(Y)$ means that the value of $X$ is set to $f(Y)$. Given an assignment of exogenous variables $u$, we will have all the values in $M$ fixed. Assume $A$ is $a$ and $B$ is $b$ in the actual world. To analyze whether $A$ causes $B$, we *surgically* set the value of $A$ to $a' \neq a$  and therefore produce a new counterfactual model $M_{A=a'}$. Given the same assignment $u$, if value of $B$ in $M_{A=a'}$ is not $b$, then we say $A$ grounds $B$.

The hard question, however, is how to choose the *appropriate* model for analysis. In the case of causation, we can do intervention tests to empirically discover the appropriate equation. But it's not clear how to do intervention tests on singleton Socrates. Assume we choose a model where the structural equation is $\{Socreates\}=Socrates$. When we intervene on $Socrates$, the value of $\{Socreates\}$ would change. When we intervene on $\{Socreates\}$, the value of $Socrates$ would not. Therefore, we can easily get the result that Socrates grounds singleton Socrates.

But the problem is, why do we choose $\{Socreates\}=Socrates$ as the *appropriate* equation? Recall the previous challenge. Robo would choose $Socrates=\{Socreates\}$. Why is Robo's choice problematic? I have not seen a satisfying reply in the current literature. For example, Schaffer seems to adopt a neutral position about model choice, and thus did not provide reason against Robo's choice.

Recall Bennett's formulation: "building", "making" and "generative". All of these are agential concepts. I believe that, Bennett's intuition aligns with my analysis. There must be something related to agency that leads to the directness that we want. Informally speaking, we can in some sense build singleton Socrates out of Socrates, but we cannot build Socrates out of singleton Socrates.

Let me explicate this intuition into an argument. Surgical intervention depends on agency.[^17] But agency depends on intention formation. If an intervention is inconceivable, then there is no way to form an intention. If there cannot be such an intention, then the agential intervention is impossible. 

Now I want to argue that, there is no way to conceive of a surgical intervention on singleton Socrates. In other words, we cannot conceive of a way to directly modify singleton Socrates. We can intervene on Socrates, or maybe on set theory. But these are all indirect intervention, and thus not surgical. Therefore, a surgical intervention on singleton Socrates is impossible.

If an intervention is impossible for a variable, then the interventionist counterfactual "If we intervene on singleton Socrates, then the value of Socrates would change" is ill-posed. Therefore, it is impossible to establish $Socreates=\{Socrates\}$, because there is no way to intervene on $\{Socreates\}$.

Is this a good reason to show that, Robo's metaphysics is flawed? It seems Robo could say, they cannot conceive of an intervention on Socrates. But they can conceive of an intervention on $\{Socrates\}$. Does this mean that my attempt failed? No. What Robo mean by "agency" would be fundamentally different from ours. **In our term, Robo is not a rational agent. Maybe Robo is a rational schmagent.**  The world that Robo lives in is not accessible for us, and therefore we should reject this as a plausible view for our metaphysics.

## Conclusion

Let me recap. Robo's challenge targets at the directionality of fundamentality. I argue that no current account can guarantee the direction, but we can preserve this direction by appealing to our rational agency. Given what "the world" means must guarantee rational agency, it is worldly. And give that Robo's metaphysics is inconsistent with our rational agency, the alternative direction is objectively ruled out.

Does it sound like cheating? If you feel like so, then the alternative seems more devastating: metaphysics seems impossible altogether. Throughout the history of philosophy, there has always been a strong impulse to secure an absolute truth that is objective and eternal. But to repeat, ultimately all possible philosophical conclusions must be derived from intuitive presuppositions. We cannot establish anything if we throw away all of our intuitions (or dispositions, sentiments, etc.). If so, then we at least should not abandon the kind of intuition that we cherish most in our ordinary life: our own rational agency. To adopt a worldview that eliminates this that is, for us, simply insane.

[^1]: Similarly, we may say moral facts belongs to a subjective realm, and different communities has different realms of morality. If this kind of moral relativism is right, then morality is subjective in this sense.
[^2]: This claim depends on an unstructured view of facts: if two sentences are equivalent, then they pick out the same fact. This view usually takes facts as sets of possible worlds. Could facts be finer-grained than that? I see no compelling reason for it. I especially want to note that the granularity of *propositions* is not the granularity of *facts*. Some, like Fritz (==citation how fine-grained is reality==), seem to conflate the two. By a *proposition* I mean the object of belief; by a *fact* I mean the thing out there that makes a sentence true. Kripke's Puzzle about Belief shows that propositions partly depend on language. But (non-linguistic) facts surely do not depend on language. Therefore, whether propositions are fine-grained does not reveal whether facts are fine-grained. For example, Dorr (==citation to be F is to be G==) defends that propositions are fine-grained by appealing to the principle "Only Logical Circles" (i.e. $x \not\equiv_{\tau} \lambda v_{1}\dots v_{n} . y(z^{\tau},x,v_{1},\dots,v_{n})$). He then develops an account of priority based on this (i.e. $x \preceq_{\sigma,\tau}\; y =_{\mathrm{df}} \exists z\;\big( y \equiv_{\tau}\; \lambda v_1 \ldots v_n \big( z(x, v_1, \ldots, v_n) \big) \big)$). But Dorr's account of *propositional* priority should not be taken as an account of *ontological* priority. Thus it is irrelevant to the metaphysical project of worldly and objective fundamentality. At best, it should be taken as a deflationary account of fundamentality.
[^3]: An alternative is to say, any reasonable semantic variance reveals a worldly and objective structure, and the world has infinitely many such kind of objective structure. But this simply collapse into the position that whatever we say is objective and nothing is subjective.
[^4]: In fact, it might go too far to say reference magnetism does not exist at all. There can be reference magnetism when we want to use words in this way. However, according to this account, which referential candidate gets the magnetic power still depend on our language use. Therefore, there is no heavyweight reference magnetism that can ensure semantic variance.
[^5]: One possible approach is to define the essential meaning of a term by its introduction and elimination rules (IE-rules). This may be intuitive for logical constants. For a term to count as a quantifier, for example, it must obey the IE-rules for quantifiers. However, the full meaning of a quantifier also depends on its domain, and the IE-rules don't fix the domain. Therefore, the meaning of a quantifier can still vary as its domain varies. This approach faces several problems. First, we might say the "negation" in intuitionistic logic is a variation of classical negation. But they have different IE-rules. Second, for non-logical terms, the IE-rules themselves are usually formulated using terms that can vary. Third, and most importantly, even if we accept this IE-rules essentialism, it would not help fix "fundamentality" as a worldly and objective feature. It leads to a specific conclusion: a term's meaning is invariant if its meaning is exhausted by its IE-rules. However, "fundamentality" is intended to be more than just a conventional, syntactic symbol. Therefore, this strategy for securing semantic invariance is not a viable option for the fundamentality project anyway.
[^6]: What I mean by "meaning", of course, includes extension. Therefore, the change of extension leads to the change of meaning.
[^7]: In fact Sider tend to drop the term "naturalness" to favor the term "joint-carving" or "structural" for the extended meaning of "naturalness". But let me stick to "naturalness" here.
[^8]: Surely for us, there is no problem, in accordance with Bayesian principles, to adopt a higher credence for green-laws based on prior distribution. This may be enough to say we are justified to believe green-law, and this is enough for our confirmation. But there is no theoretical reason to take greenness as the metaphysically privileged concept across different frameworks.
[^9]: If this example is puzzling to you, you can try the following notation: Robo uses "Socrates" to refer to $\{Socrates\}$, and "-Socrates-" to refer to Socrates. Mathematically speaking, set formation has nothing to do with intrinsicality. Why *a member of a set* is somehow intrinsic and thus more fundamental than *the set itself*? This seems to be just our *interpretation* of set formation, influenced by ordinary language words like "membership" and how we use brackets to warp the members. But we could have used alternative notations, like using "M-relation" instead of membership, and use $\{\}-Socrates$ instead of $\{Socrates\}$.
[^10]: The problem can be made more general. If $Rxy$ makes $\square (x \leftrightarrow y)$ true, then let's call the relation $R$ *mutually necessitating*. Given any directed and mutually necessitating relation, we can always find a reverse relation that is also directed and necessitating. And reversal is not the only formal maneuver we can do. Say a binary asymmetric relation $R\subseteq D\times D$ is mutually necessitating. Then we can define inverse $R^{-1}=\{(x,y)\in D\times D \mid R(y,x)\}$. Given that $R^{-1}(x,y) \leftrightarrow R(y,x)$, it is easy to see $R^{-1}$ is also asymmetric and necessitating. Moreover, let $x\equiv_{\Box}y$ abbreviate $\Box(x\leftrightarrow y)$. $R$ lies inside the union of $\equiv_{\Box}$-classes, i.e. $R\subseteq\bigcup_{C\in D/\!\equiv_{\Box}}(C\times C)$. Hence within each $\equiv_{\Box}$-class $C$ of size $n$ one may independently pick for every unordered pair $\{u,v\}\subset C$ either $u\to v$, $v\to u$, or neither, producing $3^{\binom{n}{2}}$ asymmetric, necessitating relations on $C$. Whenever some $\equiv_{\Box}$-class has $n\ge 2$ there are therefore combinatorially many relations $R^{*}$ that (i) predicate over the same domain, (ii) are necessitating and directed, yet (iii) are extensionally different from a given directed, necessitating $R$.
[^11]:  But maybe grounding facts ungrounded at all? There are well-known issues for saying this. First, the following principle seems intuitive: $x$ is fundamental if $x$ occurs in fundamental facts. And intuitively, everything occurs in some grounding fact. Now, if grounding facts are ungrounded, then it follows that everything is fundamental. This is usually called the Collapse Problem.  Another issue is that, it is incompatible with the principle that, fundamen­tal facts are freely modally recombinable. If $P<Q$ and $P$ is fundamental, then according to modal recombination, then $\diamond (P<Q \land \neg P)$. But this is inconsistent the facitivity of grounding: $\square (P<Q \rightarrow P)$. Given these problems, people tend to say grounding facts are grounded by some other fact.
[^12]: More explanation on how this translation works and why this is a verbal dispute, see ==Hirsch citations==
[^15]: The world is "inconsistent" is not a good formulation. In theory, consistency is a syntactic notion. It is a categorical mistake to apply it to the world. Maybe the better way to formulate the sentence is as follows: the world is such that, the "true" theory about the world will come out inconsistent. But for brevity, I will use the term "inconsistent world" to mean this.
[^16]: Hirsch (==selves in doubt ch. 3==) discussed how this constraint applies to personal identity
[^17]:A lot more needs be said to defend this position. Here, let me briefly sketch the reason I say this. There is a well-known issue that, using SEM to analyze causation is circular because intervention itself is a causal notion. Modern interventionists like Pearl and Woodword tend to admit this circularity without further explanation. But I believe more can be said. In fact, agency-based interpretations were actually the predecessors of contemporary interventionism. ==von Wright (1971); Peter Menzies and Huw Price (1993)== developed agent-based accounts that aimed to reduce causation to agency. I believe this reduction cannot work, but I think it is perfectly fine to analyze non-agential causation in terms of agencial causation. And the interpretation of agential causation is guaranteed by our own rational agency.