%%
For teenagers aged between 15 to 18, what is the most important to the teacher?
1. the ability to help students plan for future
2. the ability to recognize which student needs help and offer that help
3. the ability to encourage students to learn on their own outside of the classroom
%%

Though the value of education is universally recognized, there remains a divergence of opinions regarding what is the most important to the teacher for teenagers between fifteen to eighteen. Some posit that it is of utmost importance to guide students for future planning, while others advocate for encouraging students to study independently as primary concern. I, however, concur with the perspective that places paramount importance on identifying student's needs and offer them help. My rationale will be elucidated as follows.
First, despite assisting students to plan for future or encouraging self-learning are essential, they may not be the most urgent matters for adolescents around fifteen to eighteen specifically. The main problem these adolecents, generally high school students are facing is tremendous. For example, peer pressure, stresses from college application as well as the typical teenage troubles like wanting intimate relationship all constitute the complicated challenges for them. Certainly, forward planning and self-teaching ability are valuable skills, yet they may not produce the expected benefit due to the obstacles at hand. We can consider a scenario to illustrate  this point. Suppose a high school student, Smith, is in love with another girl but do not know how to express it. He is bothered by this and causes him unrest and hard to focus on the challenging academic requirements in school. In this situation, designing the future may only cause him to be more anxious. Similarly, since he is grappling with the courses inside the classroom, then there is no use for him to develop the capacity to study independently. Hence, we can contend that those who consider nurturing forward planning or self-studying as the teacher's highest concern ignore the complexity of teenagehood, while this very intricacy is what makes up our adolescent life.
Secondly, recognizing obstacle and offering help tackles the core issue, and thereby should be the educator's primary concern. As mentioned above, high school students face tremendous amount of obstacles, while the predicament lies in the fact that they usually have little knowledge on how to solve them. It is also not easy for teachers to offer help, since a teacher needs to deal with dozens or even hundreds of students while each of them have their own different situation. Thus, it is vital for teachers to take over this difficult duty and develop corresponding ability. If we go back to the previous example, we can see why knowing the problem and assisting the student out of it resolves the intrinsic issue. If Smith's love can be properly led to a positive motive for him to become a better person, then it may help him to be more engaged into his current study. Moreover, after the trouble at hand is gone, he may start to think about the future and learn new things automously. Accordingly, it is justified to say seeing their difficulties and guide them out of the trouble plays the highest role for teachers of high school students.
In conclusion, I believe it is important to give a hand for the adolescents when they are facing the complicated trouble of their age. Therefore, identifying and resolving it should be their teacher's top duty.
