why philosophy studies knowledge

What is philosophy?
-  classical understanding: "philo-sophia"
-  analytical tradition: philosophy as a way of thinking that select judgment/beliefs with reason, justified beliefs from others

two ways to take a belief as true:
1. exploring our beliefs: to investigate a belief's connections with other belief (chain: fundamentalism, infinitism; equal connection: coherence theory)
2. examing our beliefs: whether it is based on good reason/justification
3. the perplexity of the relation of exploring our beliefs and examing our beliefs

What is knowledge (proposition)? What is knowing (status of mind)?

Theories of knowledge: knowledge (esp. before 1960)
Epistemology: brings out focus on wisdom, understanding

# Plato and Ancient Epistemology

theories of knowledge + understanding + wisdom + … = epistemology 实践转向

实践旨趣改变知识真值

episteme can refer to knowledge, science or understanding
epistasthai: to know, to understand or to be acquinted with


## high conception of knowledge: Republic
knowledge of Forms: eternal, unchanging, perfect…
opinion/mere belief: opinion of sense-objects, "in constant flux"

### Evaluation

advantage: the value of knowledge
disadvantage: 
does this view committed to *methodism*?

The problem of the Criterion, methodism and particularism
suppose I want to offer a definition of x, I should 

1. gather lots of ***instances of x***
2. identify the ***criteria for knowledge***

The problem of (1): in order to justify that why the instances are x, it seems that we need to know the correct criteria in the first place

The problem of (2): in order to justify that the criteria is correct, it seems that we need to know the correct instances in the first place

methodism: opt for the (2) over (1)
particularism: opt (1) over (2)
(terms coined by chisholm)

## Enquiry

exploring the belief
examining the belief

key questions in epistemology
- what is knowledge?
	- what is the nature of knowledge?
- what can we know?
	- what is the extent of our knowledge?
	- how do we know what we do know?

### Example: What can we know and the types of knowledge?

the objectives of the enquiry: 
1. find necessary conditions
2. the collective necessary conditions can formulate a sufficient condition

compare Meno's paradox:

- If x knows, then there is **no need** for x to enquire
- If x does not know, then x cannot enquire

#### Welborn's solution

If we don't know, we can use the interrogative words 

##### modes of enquiries

- market-place enquiry (expert knowledge, rely on trust)
- cartesian enquiry (knowledge of one's own)

##### Meno's paradox again

enquiries from complete ignorance may be impossible, but we have the minimum knowledge of paradigms that allows us to formulate our questions.

*skepticism*


### Plato's solution

##### Meno

the theory of recollection:
a metaphysical or epistemological solution? (or a philosophy-of-mind solution: the change in the status of mind)

the process of recalling the truth = justicification

##### Theaetetus

the innitial state of particularism (enumeration) cannot be taken as a definition of knowledge itself











low conception of knowledge: Meno and Theatetus

