---
title: Thrasymachus on Ruling Craft and Justice
subtitle: 
author: Tang Zongyuan
abstract: 
date: 
institute: 
numbersections: false
toc: false
toc-title: 
reference-section-title: Secondary Literature
mainfont: Times New Roman
CJKmainfont: 
include-before: 
linestretch: "1"
fontsize: "12"
---
# Introduction

In _Republic I_, Thrasymachus offers three different statements about justice, namely 

(a) justice is the advantage of the stronger (338c),[^1] 
(b) justice is to obey the rulers (339c), and 
(c) justice is someone else's good (343b).

But (a) conflicts with (b) when a ruler errs and makes commands not to their own advantage.[^2] (a) and (c) are at odds when the stronger pursue his own advantage. This has caused quite a brawl over what Thrasymachus' real position is among the scholars over the last century.[^3] However, to the best of my knowledge, none of them have offered a satisfying explanation. Either, they focused solely on Thrasymachus' perspective and overlooked Socrates' refutation. Given that it is Plato who is behind all the interlocutors, this neglects a crucial aspect of Platonic dialogue, where interlocutors from both sides contribute to the point that Plato wants to make. Or, some argued that, under their interpretation, Thrasymachus' definition is strong enough to withstand all of Socrates' refutations. However, if that is the case, what is the purpose of Plato writing a plot in which Socrates successfully uses unsound arguments to defeat a professional sophist?

Some recent scholars are also not satisfied with the existing interpretation. They contend that there is insufficient evidence to reconcile Thrasymachus' account and have begun to argue that he is not presenting a consistent definition, but rather providing empirical descriptions.[^4] Yet, I have found no conclusive reason to embrace this recent trend and Thrasymachus is indeed implying that he is offering a consistent definition by emphasizing (a) five times throughout his speech.    

In this paper, I will solve this puzzle by presenting textual evidence that helps reconcile Thrasymachus' three distinct statements into a coherent standpoint. By doing so, we can see that the key to understand Thrasymachus' real position lies in his particular understanding of the ruling craft[^5]. 

# Thrasymachus' justice and ruling craft

Given the ambiguity in Thrasymachus' position, it would be helpful to begin by addressing a preliminary question: what kind of answer to what is justice does Thrasymachus think is most apt? Fortunately, Plato has left us with some solid clues. In 336d, Thrasymachus prohibits Socrates from saying justice is the needful\[τὸ δέον\], or the helpful\[τὸ ὠφέλιμον\], or the profitable\[τὸ λυσιτελοῦν\], or the gainful\[τὸ κερδαλέον\], or the advantageous\[τὸ συμφέρον\] because they are neither clear nor precise.[^6] Although Thrasymachus did not explain why they are not clear and precise, his company Cleitophon offers an explanation. In the dialogue *Cleitophon*, Cleitophon prohibits an almost identical list of definitions in 409c when he asks Socrates' disciples about justice: the advantageous\[τὸ συμφέρον\], the needful\[τὸ δέον\], the helpful\[τὸ ὠφέλιμον\] and the profitable\[τὸ λυσιτελοῦν\]. He lists them in that they apply not only to justice but also to other crafts, i.e. carpentry also knows what is needful or helpful regarding making wooden implements. Therefore, Cleitophon is saying that a proper answer to justice should restrict the scope that it refers to so that it is neither broader nor narrower than what justice refers to. 

Cleitophon's reason for prohibition should also apply to Thrasymachus because there is a clear connection between *Cleitophon* and *Republic*, and between Cleitophon and Thrasymachus. @cliffordCleitophon1987 has pointed out that:

1. *Cleitophon* is the only dialogue, other than the *Republic*, in which the characters Cleitophon, Socrates, Lysias, and Thrasymachus all appear. 
2. *Cleitophon* is also the only dialogue that is named after a character who is also present in the *Republic*.
3. Cleitophon is the only figure who neither addresses Socrates nor is addressed by him in *Republic*. The *Cleitophon* depicts the missing confrontation between Cleitophon and Socrates.

In addition, apart from the two lists of prohibition being almost identical, Cleitophon is portrayed as someone who gets disappointed with Socrates' elenchus and turns to Thrasymachus for real wisdom (*Cleitophon*, 406a). Thus, Cleitophon probably has learnt this challenge from Thrasymachus, and Thrasymachus should also hold the view that a proper answer to what is justice should restrict neither broader nor narrower scope. In other words, if $P$ is the answer to what is justice then $x$ is just, iff. $x$ fits the description of $P$, which obviously takes the form of a definition.

With this conclusion, we can exclude some of our candidates. (c) is excluded because many crafts, i.e. medicine and carpentry, also care for someone else's good. (a) also seems to be excluded because it is explicitly revealed by Socrates that beef is also advantageous for the stronger, but it is absurd to say beef is just (338c) and thus (a) is not an apt answer. What remains appears to be (b).

However, (a) is actually free from previous exclusion by Thrasymachus' putting forward "the ruler in precise speech". The structural reason for Socrates' counterexample is that only those public affairs, which concern interpersonal interaction, can be evaluated by the word "just", while private matters, like eating beef, do not have such attribute. But according to Thrasymachus, we do not call someone a craftsman, i.e. doctor, or calculator, in precise speech when the one makes mistakes in his craft. In my view, this precise speech in fact replaces the craftsman with the craft itself, which is defined by its job (consider 346a). This is because only the craft itself, by definition, necessitates its job so that it ensures the infallibility of the craftsman in precise speech. This move rejects the counterexample that Socrates raises for the following reason. If someone does something that has nothing to do with at least one essential element of the craft's job, then he is not using the craft. For someone who holds ruling office, private affairs like eating beef have nothing to do with the subject, which is an essential element of the ruling craft's job. It follows that if the one who holds ruling office is engaged in private affairs, he is not using the ruling craft. Since the ruler is now defined as the one who is using the ruling craft, private affairs no longer count as the advantage of the stronger.

Then how do we choose between (a) and (b)? First, I believe (a) is preferred by Thrasymachus. He repeatedly emphasizes it for at least five times (339a, 341a, 343a, 343c, 344c), but only concedes (b) when it is brought up by Socrates. Also, Thrasymachus rejects Cleitophon's advice when Cleitophon suggests that Thrasymachus should replace his initial statement with "justice is what the stronger believes to be his advantage". But if (b) is Thrasymachus' true position and nothing more, he should have accepted it. Second, (a) is Thrasymachus' real position on account of my following reconstruction:

1. Iff. someone uses ruling craft, then he sets down something and it is best for him. (341a)
2. Iff. someone is the stronger, he uses ruling craft. (339a)
3. Iff. if someone uses ruling craft and sets down something, then he declares it to be just for the ruled. (339a)
4. $\therefore$ Iff. something is best for the stronger (the advantage of the stronger), then he declares it to be just for the ruled. (from 1, 2, 3)

So far, this conclusion does not follow that (a). But since what Thrasymachus initially said is "justice is *nothing other than* …", I believe he is implying that his account is exclusively true and any other definition of justice is impossible. Therefore, I interpret Thrasymachus as accepting the premise that:

5. Iff. the stronger declares something to be just for the ruled, then for ruled, it is just.

And also by the meaning of words, it is obvious that:

6. If something is best for someone, then it is the advantage of him.

In addition, when Plato is seeking the definition of justice, he is seeking the reason or cause\[αἴτιον\] for which just actions are called just.[^7] Therefore:

7. If something is just because P, then justice is P.
8. If something is just only because P, then justice is nothing other than P.

Thus, to get the definition of justice, we need to reformulate the proposition into "something is just, (only) because $P$":[^8]

9. For the ruled, something is just only because the stronger declares it to be just for the ruled. (from 4, 5)
10. The stronger declares something to be just for the ruled only because he uses ruling craft and sets down something. (from 3)
11. Someone uses ruling craft and sets down something because it is his advantage. (338e)
12. For any proposition $P, Q, R$, if $P$ because $Q$ and $Q$ because $R$, then $P$ because $R$. 
13. For the ruled, something is just only because it is the advantage of the stronger. (from 1, 9, 10, 11, 12)
14. $\therefore$ For the ruled, justice is nothing other than the advantage of the stronger. (from 8, 13)

Throughout the lines of reasoning, several propositions can derive the definition of justice. For instance, a proposition similar to (b), "justice is what the stronger declares to be just", can be derived from 8 and 9. However, nothing in Thrasymachus' account, according to my reconstruction, directly derives that justice is to *obey* the rulers. Taking a step back, even if "what the stronger declares" may entail the duty to obey, (a) is still logically prior to (b) because if someone asks "Why is it just to obey rulers?", one can explain that it is because it serves the advantage of the stronger. In other words, if allowed to use the vocabulary of Aristotle, (a) is the first principle\[ἀρχή\] of Thrasymachus' theory of justice and thus prior to other definitions.[^9]

According to my reconstruction, when Thrasymachus insists (a) is his answer, he is actually saying "for the ruled, justice is nothing other than the advantage of the stronger". On this interpretation, (a) is coherent with (c) when the ruler does something according to his own advantage. This is because the one who uses the ruling craft, according to Thrasymachus' account, does not rule himself. Therefore, neither (a) restricts (c), nor (c) restricts (a), as many have argued. Instead, Thrasymachus is arguing globally that justice does not apply to the one who uses ruling craft, that is the stronger, because they are not the ruled.[^10]

# Conclusion

Now it is clear that (a) is Thrasymachus' real position, and it means that for the ruled, if something is just, it is because it serves the advantage of the one who uses the ruling craft. As we can see, it is his special ruling craft that did all the weight-lifting, excludes counterexamples of beef being just and ruler making mistakes, and cleared the inconsistency between (a) and (c). Also, the key notion, the stronger, is defined by the ruling craft, and Thrasymachus' other accounts are nothing novel except how he defines the ruling craft. Because of this specific understanding of ruling craft, just citizens are produced by it as fat sheep are produced by shepherd's craft. Moreover, the one who uses ruling craft will not make himself just, just like the shepherd's craft does not make a shepherd fat. Thrasymachus also presupposes a dubious proposition 5 that only the ruling craft under his account can produce justice. Therefore, Thrasymachus leaves open at least two possible objections. The first is to question whether his "all-mighty" ruling craft is possible, and the second is to provide an alternative of how justice comes into being. [^11]


[^1]: Thrasymachus presupposes that the stronger means the ruler. I will not question further on this premise, since it is off the topic. Thus, I will use "the stronger" and "the ruler" interchangeably to mean "the ruler" in this paper.
[^2]: This conflict has been pointed out explicitly by Socrates in 339b-e. Thrasymachus resolves this by the ruler "in precise speech", which defines the ruler as infallible. Some have argued that this does not resolve the conflict [i.e. @crossPlatoRepublicPhilosophical1971;@maguireThrasymachusPlato1971]. However, I agree with those who found it to be a plausible solution for the following reasons. First, as Reeve has pointed out, Socrates (or say Plato himself) also adopts this view [detailed textual evidence, see @reeveSocratesMeetsThrasymachus1985]. Also, some thought it was not resolved because they misunderstood (b) as "justice is the law", and they understood the law as the conventional one. This is wrong because since Thrasymachus has moved to the "precise speech", the law should also depend on precise speech and therefore should be reduced to what the ruler in precise speech declares, not factual or conventional laws. Therefore, I only take the conflict between (a) and (c) as the major one and accept "ruler in precise speech" in the following discussion.
[^3]: The discussion over which definition Thrasymachus offers is his real stance is quite nuanced, but they generally speaking fall into three positions respectively. On the side of (a), see @barkerPoliticalThoughtPlato1959, p. 95; @crombieExaminationPlatoDoctrines1963, p. 81; @dorterSocratesRefutationThrasymachus1974; @reeveSocratesMeetsThrasymachus1985; Those who support (b) are @winspearGenesisPlatoThought1956, p. 190; @houraniThrasymachusDefinitionJustice1962; @straussCityMan1978, p. 75; @benardeteSocratesSecondSailing1989, pp. 22-24; @bloomRepublicPlatoSecond1991, pp. 326-328; @staufferPlatoIntroductionQuestion2001, pp. 62-63; Some also prefer (c), i.e. @kerferdDoctrineThrasymachusPlato1947; @sparshottSOCRATESTHRASYMACHUS1966; @hendersonDefenseThrasymachus1970; @nicholsonUnravellingThrasymachusArguments1974; @annasIntroductionPlatoRepublic1981, p. 37; Another popular way to classify these positions is into three categories: nihilism (which asserts that there is no such thing as justice), conventionalism (which posits that justice is exclusively the law), and immoralism (which claims that justice is a matter of personal opinion, but inherently bad). Typically, conventionalism adheres to (b), while immoralism corresponds to (c). Those who favor (a) may sometimes lean towards nihilism interpretation, but it is also possible for them to adopt a conventionalism interpretation.
[^4]:  see @chappellVirtuesThrasymachus1993, @whiteThrasymachusDiplomat1995,  @santasMethodsReasoningJustice2006, @andersonThrasymachusSophisticAccount2016, @barneyCalliclesThrasymachus2017
[^5]: Due to the word limit, I cannot present how Socrates refutes Thrasymachus by using craft analogy. But I want to emphasize the importance of craft analogy in understanding Republic I. Some scholars have pointed out this importance. However, I found none of them have given a satisfying account. Reeve and Irwin think that Socrates is arguing nonsense and only silences Thrasymachus with verbal tricks. Therefore, Plato himself rejects craft analogy and this explains why this Socratic method disappears in his late dialogue [@reeveSocratesMeetsThrasymachus1985;@irwinPlatoMoralTheory1977]. In response to this, Barney defended that Plato did not abandon craft analogy but on the contrary completed it in Republic [@barneyTecheModelVirtue2020]. I agree with most of the conclusions from Barney, but she nevertheless thinks all Socrates' refutations presuppose unjustified Platonic premises that can only be explained later in Book II-IX. This interpretation, however, does not explain why on earth would Thrasymachus yield, blushing and sweating. It also implies that if Thrasymachus does not accept them, then he is never refuted.
[^6]: To the best of my knowledge, Welton is the first and the only few who has noticed the importance of this prohibition [@weltonThrasymachusVsSocrates2006]. He explains the reason why they are not precise or clear as they are too general and uninformative. So far so good, but he then argues that if something is general, then it is theoretical. Therefore Welton claims that Thrasymachus believes a proper definition for justice must not be theoretical like mathematics, but practical and empirical. I think this move is dubious for two reasons. First, Welton did not provide, and as far as I am concerned, there is no textual evidence for the claim that Thrasymachus does think so. On the contrary, what Thrasymachus offers, especially the "ruler in precise speech", is nevertheless general and theoretical. Second, Welton also mentioned the connection between Thrasymachus' account and the dialogue *Cleitophon*, but remained silent about the reason why Cleitophon thinks these definitions are improper. Welton might have been intentionally silent because he is skeptical about the authenticity of *Cleitophon*, but at least it is solid textual evidence and its authenticity is generally conceded [on the discussion of authenticity, see @blitsSocraticTeachingJustice1985;@roochnikRiddleCleitophon1984;@cliffordCleitophon1987;@bruellSocraticEducationIntroduction1999].
[^7]: In Meno, Socrates claims that a definition should be the one form shared by the many and varied (72c). Let alone the different view of knowledge between *Republic* and *Meno*, form is undoubtedly a standard type of knowledge, thereby entailing the calculation of cause\[αἰτίας λογισμῷ\] (98a). Thus, a definition should explain the cause of the many and varied instances.
[^8]: The reformulation from "if A then B" to "B because A", and "iff. A then B" to "B only because A" will raise some doubts because material implication does not entail causality. To explore Platonic causality with logic symbols is far beyond this paper's theme, and since here I'm using the common meaning of if-then, I will simply allow this move.
[^9]: In 347e, Socrates has revealed that Thrasymachus' definition of justice (whatever it is) is yet established on the fundamental premise that "the life of the unjust man is stronger than that of the just mean". Therefore, strictly speaking, this is the real ἀρχή of Thrasymachus' theory. Anyhow, in the scope of my reconstruction, (a) would be the ἀρχή and prior to (b).
[^10]: A possible challenge is that Thrasymachus uses "unjust" to evaluate the paradigmatic tyrant, and this is because Thrasymachus applies "justice is really someone else's good" to the ruler. Thus, for instance, Maguire argued that Thrasymachus offers a new concept that makes him inconsistent [@maguireThrasymachusPlato1971]. However, in 343c, he is explicitly arguing from the standpoint of the subject instead of arguing universally. Also, he makes it clear that he is coherent by adding "the advantage of the man who is stronger and rules" right after he says "justice is really someone else's good". Therefore, when he is applying "justice is really someone else's good" to the ruler, he is using the common view generalized from the necessary property of justice, which can be derived from his previous definition. Yet for Thrasymachus, only the one who uses the ruling craft gets to declare what is just, and evaluating the ruler from the side of the subject is theoretically invalid. Nevertheless, since Thrasymachus is trying to speak to Socrates, who is "the ruled" and (to some extent) accepts the common view, it can serve as an accessible description in loose speech. 
[^11]: In fact, Socrates is precisely adopting the first objection in Book I, and the second objection in Book II-XI. Due to the strict word limit of 2000 words, however, I can only pay lip service to this claim.