This personal statement will be divided into four parts. The first part argues that my GPA does not accurately reflect my academic ability. The second part explains my motivation in philosophy. The third part is about my background and interests. The fourth part explains the reason you should consider enrolling me.

My GPA is not a good indicator for me. Firstly, I never intended to study Japanese, and I completely gave up in the first year, which caused a significant drop in my GPA. Secondly, I had zero knowledge about Japanese before, but SISU offers the best Japanese language major in China, attracting numerous students who have been studying Japanese for years. Some of them have even passed the N1 (the highest level of the Japanese Language Proficiency Test) BEFORE ENTERING UNIVERSITY. Thirdly, SISU’s undergraduate education primarily emphasizes language proficiency. Out of the 90 credits I’ve completed in my major, only 10 are NOT primarily focused on language acquisition. Consequently, my GPA only reflects my language ability as an average student among the top Japanese learners in China, but it doesn’t provide any insight into my broader academic abilities, let alone my proficiency in philosophy.

My motivation stems from the experience I mentioned above. This predicament has shattered all my hopes and dreams that were established before, causing me to question, “Is there a reason for me to live, rather than to die?” Over the years, I have found that the ability and tools to contemplate this question can only be acquired through the study of philosophy. In particular, ancient Greek philosophy’s concept of taking philosophy as a way of life and examining how one should live has left a profound impact on me. This has opened the door to philosophy, leading me to ponder questions such as: How and why should one live? What constitutes a good life? Is moral truth even attainable? These questions have guided me to explore the works of philosophers like Aristotle, Kant, Nietzsche, and analytic philosophy. Furthermore, even back in my middle school years, I was already interested in philosophy because I was impressed by the ingenuity of Hume’s skepticism about causation and Kant’s solution to it. I embrace Aristotle’s function argument and believe that philosophy as a way of life can help me flourish.

There is no philosophy department or other courses available at SISU, and I have done the best I can do for my background in philosophy. I have studied ancient Greek and German, and engaged with books, courses, and reading groups to develop my understanding of philosophy. I have also studied logic, epistemology, philosophy of mind, and metaphysics independently by course recordings and textbooks. 

In the short term, apart from building a strong foundation and gaining proficiency in philosophy, my primary goal can be to delve deeper into Platonic ethics and political philosophy and see whether Plato really endures the criticism, especially from Nietzsche or Popper. Also, one way to understand his ethical theories leads to his epistemology since “ought to” is often considered irreducible to “is.” However, Plato’s epistemology establishes knowledge of virtue and justice, particularly through the craft analogy. How does that work, and is that valid, given that it may be based on some metaphysical assumptions? In addition, Plato’s epistemology is usually understood as JTB, but Plato emphasizes both the “low view” of knowledge, the internal condition of knowledge as portrayed in Meno and Theaetetus, and the “high view,” the external condition of knowledge as explained in the Republic. Many scholars have explained this as Plato having his own understanding and therefore abandoning Socratic doctrines, but I find this unconvincing and wish to find a way to reconcile the tension between the two views and bring Plato into the contemporary debate on knowledge.

I am extremely eager to pursue a Philosophy MA at Birkbeck. As a conversion student with a weak background, it has been challenging to get started in philosophy. Birkbeck is friendly to conversion students and offers a wide range of fields, including ancient, medieval, modern, and analytic philosophy, allowing me to establish a solid foundation in all the core aspects of philosophy. Additionally, being situated in London, Birkbeck provides access to academic resources from various universities and organizations, like London Centre for Ancient Philosophy, that may support my further studies. 

Despite having an unrelated Bachelor’s degree, I believe I am much more motivated than others due to my past experiences, and I am more skilled at self-studying, as I demonstrated above. I guarantee that I will invest every second in the study of philosophy and make the most of the charitable opportunity that Birkbeck may provide.

In conclusion, I would be extremely honored to be accepted by Birbeck, and I believe I am well-prepared for my study at Birbeck, both academically and personally.