Briefly describe the areas of philosophy, philosophical problems, and/or philosophers you wish to study.
Briefly discuss your interest in one area of philosophy, philosophical problem, or philosopher you have enjoyed studying.

This personal statement will be divided into three parts. The first part argues that my GPA does not accurately reflect my academic ability. The second part explains the areas of philosophy I have enjoyed studying. The third part explains philosophers you wish to study. why I believe you should consider enrolling me, despite my unrelated background in philosophy.

My GPA is not a good indicator for me. Firstly, I never intended to study Japanese, and I completely gave up in the first year, which caused a significant drop in my GPA. Secondly, I had zero knowledge about Japanese before, but SISU offers the best Japanese language major in China, attracting numerous students who have been studying Japanese for years. Thirdly, SISU’s undergraduate education primarily emphasizes language proficiency. Out of the 90 credits I’ve completed in my major, only 10 are NOT primarily focused on language acquisition. Consequently, my GPA doesn’t provide any insight into my academic abilities.

I have enjoyed studying various subjects including logic, metaphysics, epistemology, etc.. Among these, however, I have particularly spent time and enjoyed ancient Greek philosophy and tge concept of taking philosophy as a way of life and examining how one should live has left a profound impact on me. This has opened the door to philosophy, leading me to ponder questions such as: How and why should one live? What constitutes a good life? Is moral truth even attainable? These questions have guided me to explore the works of philosophers like Aristotle, Kant, Nietzsche, and analytic philosophy. Furthermore, even back in my middle school years, I was already interested in philosophy because I was impressed by the ingenuity of Hume’s skepticism about causation and Kant’s solution to it. I embrace Aristotle’s function argument and believe that philosophy as a way of life can help me flourish and counteract the destructive impact of my misfortune.

There is no philosophy department or other courses available at SISU, and I have done the best I can do for my background in philosophy. I have studied ancient Greek and German, and engaged with books, courses, and reading groups to develop my understanding of philosophy. I have also studied logic, epistemology, philosophy of mind, and metaphysics independently by course recordings and textbooks. 

In the short term, apart from building a strong foundation and gaining proficiency in philosophy, my primary goal can be to delve deeper into Platonic ethics and political philosophy and see whether Plato really endures the criticism, especially from Nietzsche or Popper. Also, one way to understand his ethical theories leads to his epistemology since “ought to” is often considered irreducible to “is.” However, Plato’s epistemology establishes knowledge of virtue and justice, particularly through the craft analogy. How does that work, and is that valid, given that it may be based on some metaphysical assumptions? In addition, Plato’s epistemology is usually understood as JTB, but Plato emphasizes both the “low view” of knowledge, the internal condition of knowledge as portrayed in Meno and Theaetetus, and the “high view,” the external condition of knowledge as explained in the Republic. Many scholars have explained this as Plato having his own understanding and therefore abandoning Socratic doctrines, but I find this unconvincing and wish to find a way to reconcile the tension between the two views and bring Plato into the contemporary debate on knowledge.

I am extremely eager to pursue graduate studies at SFSU. As a conversion student, it has been challenging for getting started in philosophy. In the English-speaking world, most MA programs in the UK only last one year, which would not allow me time to build a strong foundation in philosophy. At the same time, most US institutions only offer PhD programs, and those few that offers MA mostly focused on analytic philosophy, which may not accept me given my background in ancient philosophy and political philosophy. However, SFSU is partcularly strong in ethics and political philosophy but also provide good training in analytic philosophy. This rare combination would allow me to continue pursuing in-depth study for ancient Greek philosophy and provide formal training in other fields I am interested. Therefore, SFSU is the best place for me.

Despite having an unrelated Bachelor’s degree, I believe I am much more motivated than others due to my past experiences, and I am more skilled at self-studying, as I demonstrated above. I wish to pursue additional coursework and establish a strong foundation in philosophy during the first year. Afterward, I plan to dedicate two years to in-depth research in my chosen field. I guarantee that I will invest every second in the study of philosophy and make the most of the charitable opportunity that SFSU may provide.

In conclusion, I would be extremely honored to be accepted by SFSU, and I believe I am well-prepared for my study at SFSU, both academically and personally.

