---
title: Socrates and Thrasymachus on Ruling Craft and Justice
subtitle: 
author: Tang Zongyuan
abstract: 
date: 
institute: 
numbersections: false
toc: false
toc-title: 
reference-section-title: Secondary Literature
mainfont: Times New Roman
CJKmainfont: 
include-before: []
linestretch: "1"
fontsize: "12"
---

# Introduction

In *Republic I*, Thrasymachus bursts onto the scene, pours down an answer to the question of what justice is, and gets refuted by Socrates. However, how exactly this happened seems like a maze. Thrasymachus' account is confusing because he offers three different statements of justice, in which "the advantage of the stronger" and "the advantage of another" are not compatible with each other when the stronger acts in accordance with his own advantage.[^1] Socrates' refutation of Thrasymachus is even more perplexing. Generally, Socrates presents five different arguments, but many commentators have found none of these arguments satisfying.[^2] Even Plato himself, through the mouth of Glaucon and Adeimantus, evaluates these arguments as insufficient. However, these arguments must be strong enough to refute Thrasymachus and even make him, as a professional sophist, sweat and blush upon hearing them. Therefore, in what sense is Socrates' argument on justice sufficient to refute Thrasymachus, and in what sense is Socrates' argument insufficient, so that Socrates needs another nine books to defend justice?

In this paper, I shall argue that the core dispute between Thrasymachus and Socrates is the understanding of the ruling craft.[^3] Thrasymachus offers a consistent definition that derives from a special kind of ruling craft, and Socrates' argument effectively rebuts the central point of Thrasymachus' account by using two craft models. I will close this paper with a discussion of why Thrasymachus failed in front of Socrates, and why Socrates' argument is insufficient.

# Thrasymachus' justice and ruling craft

Since Socrates is responding to Thrasymachus, we must get Thrasymachus right in the first place. Unfortunately, there is no simple answer to his stance. There has been quite a brawl over what is the real stance of Thrasymachus over the last century.[^4] Some recent scholars have found the debate vain because there is not enough evidence to determine Thrasymachus' real view and started to argue that Thrasymachus is reasonably not offering a consistent view at all, but an empirical account.[^5] However, as far as I am concerned, I found no compelling reason to adopt this recent trend. Also, Thrasymachus is indeed insisting that he is offering a consistent view because he emphasized "justice is the advantage of the stronger" five times all along. In the following section, I will argue that there is textual evidence for Thrasymachus' real position, and it has shown that he is offering a consistent account by proposing "the ruler in precise speech", which is, in fact, the ruling craft itself.

In my view, the textual key for Thrasymachus' genuine view lies in 336d, where Thrasymachus prohibits Socrates from saying justice is the needful\[τὸ δέον\], or the helpful\[τὸ ὠφέλιμον\], or the profitable\[τὸ λυσιτελοῦν\], or the gainful\[τὸ κερδαλέον\], or the advantageous\[τὸ συμφέρον\] because they are neither clear nor precise.[^6] Although Thrasymachus did not explain why they are not clear and precise, his company Cleitophon offers an explanation. In the dialogue *Cleitophon*, Cleitophon prohibits an almost identical list of definitions in 409c when he asks Socrates' disciples about justice: the advantageous\[τὸ συμφέρον\], the needful\[τὸ δέον\], the helpful\[τὸ ὠφέλιμον\] and the profitable\[τὸ λυσιτελοῦν\]. He lists them in that they apply not only to justice but also to other crafts, i.e. carpentry also knows what is needful or helpful regarding making wooden implements. Therefore, Cleitophon is saying that a proper answer to justice should restrict the scope that it refers to so that it is neither broader nor narrower than what justice refers to. 

Cleitophon's argument also applies to Thrasymachus because there is a clear connection between *Republic* and *Cleitophon*, and between Cleitophon and Thrasymachus. @cliffordCleitophon1987 has pointed out that:

1. *Cleitophon* is the only dialogue, other than the *Republic*, in which the characters Cleitophon, Socrates, Lysias, and Thrasymachus all appear. 
2. *Cleitophon* is also the only dialogue that is named after a character who is also present in the *Republic*.
3. Cleitophon is the only figure who neither addresses Socrates nor is addressed by him in *Republic*. The *Cleitophon* depicts the missing confrontation between Cleitophon and Socrates.

In addition, apart from the two lists of prohibition being almost identical, Cleitophon is portrayed as someone who gets disappointed with Socrates' elenchus and turns to Thrasymachus for real wisdom (Cleitophon, 406a). Thus, Cleitophon probably has learnt this challenge from Thrasymachus, and Thrasymachus should also hold the view that a proper answer to what is justice should be a necessary and sufficient one. In other words, if $P$ is the answer to what is justice, then $x$ is just, iff. $x$ fits the description of $P$, which obviously takes the form of a proper definition, not an empirical account.

From this conclusion, "justice is someone else's good" is excluded because many arts, i.e. medicine and carpentry, also care for someone else's good. "Justice is the advantage of the stronger" also seems to be excluded because it is explicitly revealed by Socrates that beef is also advantageous for the stronger, but it is absurd to say beef is just (338c) and thereby not a necessary condition for justice. What remains appears to be "justice is to obey the rulers".

However, we need to reconsider his position between "justice is the advantage of the stronger" and "justice is to obey the rulers" for the following reasons. First, Thrasymachus repeatedly emphasizes "the advantage of the stronger" at least five times (339a, 341a, 343a, 343c, 344c), but he only concedes "justice is to obey the rulers" when it is brought up by Socrates. Second, Thrasymachus rejects Cleitophon's advice that he should replace his initial statement with "justice is what the stronger believes to be his advantage". By doing so, he is explicitly showing that the point he wants to make is at least more than "justice is to obey the stronger". Therefore Thrasymachus does seem to intend to say "justice is the advantage of the stronger", though the evidence does not conclusively say that it is his real position. Nevertheless it raises the question of what makes Thrasymachus think it is the better definition, and is it his real position?

To start with, "the advantage of the stronger" is actually free from previous exclusion by Thrasymachus' putting forward "the ruler in precise speech". The structural reason for Socrates' counterexample is that only those public affairs, which concern interpersonal interaction, can be evaluated by the word "just", while private matters, like eating beef, do not have such attribute. But according to Thrasymachus, we do not call someone a craftsman, i.e. doctor, or calculator, in precise speech when the one makes mistakes in his art. In my view, this precise speech in fact replaces the craftsman with the art itself, which is defined by its job (consider 346a). This is because only the art itself, by definition, is necessary for performing its job so that it can ensure the infallibility of the craftsman in precise speech. This move rejects the counterexample that Socrates raises for the following reason. If someone does something that has nothing to do with the subject, then he is not using ruling craft. For someone holds ruling office, private affairs like eating beef have nothing to do with the subject. It follows that if the one who holds ruling office is engaged in private affairs, he is not using ruling craft. Since the ruler is now defined as the one who is using ruling craft, private affairs no longer count as the advantage of the ruler or stronger.

By following this interpretation, we can reconstruct Thrasymachus' lines of reasoning as follows:

1. Iff. someone uses ruling craft, then he sets down something and it is best for him. (341a)
2. Iff. someone is the stronger, he uses ruling craft. (339a)
3. Iff. if someone uses ruling craft and sets down something, then he declares it to be just for the ruled. (339a)
4. $\therefore$ Iff. something is best for the stronger (the advantage of the stronger), then he declares it to be just for the ruled. (from 1, 2, 3)

So far, this conclusion does not follow that "justice is the advantage of the stronger".  But since what Thrasymachus initially said is "justice is *nothing other than* …", I believe he is implying that his account is exclusively true and any other definition of justice is impossible. Therefore, I interpret Thrasymachus as accepting the premise that:

5. Iff. the stronger declares something to be just for the ruled, then for ruled, it is just.

And also by the meaning of words, it is obvious that:

6. If something is best for someone, then it is the advantage of him.

In addition, when Plato is seeking the definition of justice, he is seeking the reason or cause\[αἴτιον\] for which just actions are called just. [^7] Therefore:

7. If something is just because P, then justice is P.
8. If something is just only because P. then justice is nothing other than P.

Thus, to get the definition of justice, we need to reformulate the proposition into "something is just, (only) because $P$":[^8]

9. For the ruled, something is just only because the stronger declares it to be just for the ruled. (from 4, 5)
10. The stronger declares something to be just for the ruled only because he uses ruling craft and sets down something. (from 3)
11. Someone uses ruling craft and sets down something because it is his advantage. (338e)
12. If $P$ because $Q$ and $Q$ because $R$, then $P$ because $R$. 
13. For the ruled, something is just only because it is the advantage of the stronger. (from 1, 9, 10, 11, 12)
14. $\therefore$ For the ruled, justice is nothing other than the advantage of the stronger. (from 8, 13)[^9]

According to my reconstruction, when Thrasymachus insists "the advantage of the stronger" is his answer, he is actually saying "for the ruled, justice is nothing other than the advantage of the stronger". On this interpretation, (a) "the advantage of the stronger" is coherent with (b) "someone else's advantage" when the ruler does something according to his own advantage. This is because the one who uses ruling craft, according to Thrasymachus' account, is tyrannical, which means he does not rule himself. Therefore, neither (a) restricts (b), nor (b) restricts (a), like many have argued. Instead, Thrasymachus is arguing globally that justice does not apply to the one who uses ruling craft, that is the stronger, because they are not the ruled. [^10]

Now it is clear that "justice is the advantage of the stronger" is Thrasymachus' real stance, and it means that for the ruled, if something is just, it is because it serves the advantage of the one who uses ruling craft. As we can see, the pivotal concept that did all the weight-lifting and cleared the potential inconsistency is his reinterpretation of ruling craft. Also, the key notion, the stronger, is defined by ruling craft, and Thrasymachus' other accounts are nothing novel except how he defines ruling craft. Because of this specific understanding of ruling craft, just citizens are produced by it as fat sheep are produced by shepherd's art. Moreover, the one who uses ruling craft will not make himself just, just like the shepherd's art does not make himself fat. Thrasymachus also presupposes a dubious proposition 5 that only the ruling craft under his account can produce justice. Therefore, Thrasymachus leaves open at least two possible objections. The first is to question whether his "all-mighty" ruling craft is possible, and the second is to provide an alternative of how justice comes into being. In the next section, I will argue that Socrates is precisely adopting the first objection in his refutation.

# Socrates' refutation to Thrasymachus

Socrates provided five distinctive arguments to refute Thrasymachus: 

(A) the "nature of craft" argument (341c-342e), 
(B) the "wage-earning" argument (345e-347a), 
(C) the "non-pleonectic" argument (349b-350c), 
(D) the "gang-of-thieves" argument (351b-352b), and 
(E) the "function" argument (352d-354a). 

A thorough and detailed analysis and evaluation of all these five rich and nuanced arguments would be way too lengthy.[^11] Since Thrasymachus yielded, blushing and sweating between (C) and (D), I will argue in the following passage that Socrates is consistently using his craft model in (A), (B) and (C) to reveal that at least Thrasymachus has no knowledge about the ruling craft he is proposing. The bonus argument (D) and (E) will not be discussed in detail.

I will start with the first obvious puzzle lies between (A) and (B). According to (A), all arts consider only the advantage of that of which it is the art, but not the craftsman's own advantage (342c). According to (B), wage-earning art considers the advantage of the craftsman (346b). 

To resolve this conflict in Socrates' argument, I want to call attention to *Theages* 142a-b, where Socrates made it clear that farming art rules subordinate arts like reaping, harvesting, etc. and carpentry rules sawing, hole-boring, etc.. If we consider, for instance, hole-boring art, we would find that so far as one exclusively practices hole-boring art, though he may possess the skill to bore various types of holes in the most intricate ways, he would not know where or what kind of hole to bore precisely in order to build a chair, unless guided, or say, ruled, by a carpenter or equipped with knowledge of carpentry himself. I believe this reveals an important attribute for ruling in craft analogy: the hierarchy of arts is formed only when the superior art is able to provide a systematic account for the inferior art.[^12] To illustrate, for hole-boring, as long as the hole-borer accepts the premise that it is good to make a chair, then it accepts the rule of carpentry because the carpenter is able to define the good of the borer based on his systematic knowledge of carpentry. However, the carpenter cannot explain why the borer must make a chair, unless he can yet give another account for the good of carpentry, which goes beyond the scope of the knowledge of carpentry. For example, he can explain that we ought to build a chair because there is a need in the city. In doing so, he invokes knowledge related to ruling a city.

Given these, we can get the conclusion that there are two models for a craft: the self-contained model and the ruled model. In the ruled model where craft $a$ is ruled by craft $b$, the craftsman of $b$ is able to offer a systematic explanation of the good of $a$ with the knowledge of $b$, though his explanation can go as far as the hypothesis of the good of $b$. On the other hand, in the self-contained model where the craftsman pursues the perfection of the art in itself [consider Republic, 370c. Also see @barneyTecheModelVirtue2020{79-84}], the craftsman may be able to do whatever the knowledge of the craft contains, but he cannot have knowledge about the good of the craft.

Now we can go back to wage-earning craft in Book I with some clues. Initially, the wage-earning craft is brought up in 345c by Socrates because he accuses Thrasymachus of inconsistency, for he has agreed that a true craftsman only cares for that of which it is the art. Therefore, a true shepherd "cares for nothing but providing what is best for what it has been set over", while the Thrasymachean shepherd who fattens the sheep is not really a shepherd but a wage-earner (345c). With the previous explanation, this absurd accusation of Socrates now makes sense because Socrates is actually accusing Thrasymachus of changing the model he applies.

In (A), Thrasymachus has agreed that there is no defect or error present in any art. Thus, he has adopted the self-contained model because a self-contained craft does not need anything external.[^13] However, since the craftsman in this model cannot give a rational account for the good of the craft he is practicing, it contradicts Thrasymachus' claim that the ruler uses ruling craft because he knows what is best for himself. When Thrasymachus uses the shepherd who fattens sheep to fight back, he moves to the ruled model because he has realized he has chosen the wrong model in (A). This change of position is confirmed by Plato delineating Thrasymachus as having tried to put up a fight but finally conceded with great resistance to the seemingly weak and unsound argument (A). If the counterexample of the shepherd is a good blow without changing position, there is no need for Plato to portray Thrasymachus as conceding Socrates' argument at first and then suddenly managing to think of it after a while. 

However, this change of position did not save Thrasymachus from being self-contradictory. If Thrasymachus is to take the ruled model, and the ruler who uses this art rules all the citizens, then only when the good of all crafts in the city is given by the ruling art can it rule according to knowledge. Socrates reveals in (B) that ruling art cannot be waging-earning not only because empirically rulers usually get paid. Moreover, it cannot be identical with wage-earning out of necessity. Assuming that they are identical, then just as a carpenter tells a borer how he should bore so that they can make a chair together, the ruler tells the subjects they should practice their arts so that the ruler can be benefited unjustly by them. However, according to Thrasymachus' account, the unjust ruler should produce just citizens who do not think injustice is good. Then it follows that they will not accept the unjust account provided by the unjust ruler. 

But one may say the knowledge of the ruling art may be broader than wage-earning art. The ruler doesn't have to provide the good for citizens on account of wage-earning knowledge, but he must know it. Then Socrates proposed (C), where he starts to refute in a dual aspect. 

The first aspect is still about the ruling art in the city. Only when a borer has knowledge about a superior art (i.e. carpentry) can he know when to stop using his art. Similarly, a lyre tuner's job is to tighten or loosen the strings of a lyre, but the knowledge of manipulating the strings does not determine the appropriate string tension. Only when a lyre tuner possesses musical knowledge can he determine when to stop adjusting the tension because the strings are properly tuned. However, Thrasymachus believes that when a craftsman, i.e. doctor, farmer, etc. is equipped with the knowledge of tyrannical rule, he still does not know when to cease practicing his art because of pleonexia. If Thrasymachus cannot give any distinction between possessing the knowledge of tyrannical rule and not possessing it, then there is no reason why would any art accept the Thrasymachean tyrannical rule. Therefore, (C) has shown that at least Thrasymachus is ignorant about the knowledge on the basis of which tyrannical rule is justified. So far, Thrasymachus has been fully refuted: Thrasymachus' ruling art cannot adopt the self-contained model, and if it applies the ruled model, either Thrasymachus has no knowledge about it, or it is impossible at all.

Yet, Socrates also opens a second aspect beginning from (C), which is the internal rule in the soul. Also, it is clear that in (D), Socrates is arguing from the dual aspect of city and soul, while (E) is solely from the aspect of the soul. This aspect is important because it explains how Socrates (or Plato) thinks about the relationship between justice and ruling craft: a just person knows how to rule himself so that he can have a harmonious soul, like a musical man knows how to tune a lyre so that the strings can produce harmony. In this way, Socrates adopts the ruled model for ruling craft, and the knowledge rules ruling craft is justice. Though this aspect is not necessary for refuting Thrasymachus and the premise of the tripartite soul is not justified, this aspect can nevertheless work as a trailer for the next nine books to come. 

# Conclusion

If we now look back on the whole process of the refutation, it is not hard to see why Thrasymachus failed. First, his demand for knowledge instead of mere belief led him to craft analogy (consider his rejection of Cleitophon's proposal). Second, Socrates introduced a suppressed premise: something is called a ruling craft if and only if it can rule out of knowledge, which means that he can ultimately give an account for the good of all crafts in the city. Third, he failed to give an account of the good that the ruler provides. Thrasymachus only has knowledge about some defects of justice, but he does not have any further positive knowledge about justice or injustice.

There are some possible ways out for Thrasymachus. For instance, he can claim that a ruler can rule out of luck instead of using the ruling art, or that the ruling art is the art of seizing power, thereby avoiding the demand that the ruler must rule out of necessity. Also, he may propose some free market theory in response to (C) (although it would be anachronistic, and history seems to have proven that an entirely free market powered by pleonexia will not work). Yet we would admit that ruling out of knowledge and necessity would be the most ideal solution, and since Thrasymachus is a sophist who admires knowledge, his failure seems inevitable.

Nevertheless, we can also see that Socrates' arguments only show that injustice cannot be the knowledge for *ruling craft*, but they do not provide sufficient reason why justice itself is advantageous so that no individual should live an unjust life. Thus it is open to Glaucon and Adeimantus' skepticism and calls for the necessity for the discourse in Book II-X, which takes the second objection in the previous section and explains how justice comes into being.


[^1]: Most scholars have agreed that Thrasymachus offers three different definitions, namely (a) justice is the advantage of the stronger (338c), (b) justice is to obey the rulers (339c) and (c) justice is someone else's good (343b). The incoherence between (a) and (b) has been pointed out explicitly by Socrates because sometimes a ruler makes mistakes and sets down what is disadvantageous for himself (339b-e). Thrasymachus resolves this by the ruler "in precise speech", which defines the ruler as infallible. Some have argued that this does not resolve the inconsistency between (a) and (b) [i.e. @crossPlatoRepublicPhilosophical1971;@maguireThrasymachusPlato1971]. However, I agree with those who found it more plausible than it seems for the following reasons. First, as Reeve has pointed out, Socrates (or say Plato himself) also adopts this view [detailed textual evidence, see @reeveSocratesMeetsThrasymachus1985]. Also, they thought the inconsistency between (a) and (b) is not resolved because they misunderstood (b) as "justice is the law", and they understood the law as the conventional one. This is wrong because since Thrasymachus has moved to the "precise speech", the law should also depend on precise speech and therefore should be reduced to what the ruler in precise speech declares, not factual or conventional laws. Therefore, I only take the conflict between (a) and (c) as the major one and accept "ruler in precise speech" in the following discussion.
[^2]: Many hold very critical views about Socrates' argument, i.e. "Thrasymachus has produced two powerful and convincing arguments, Socrates five bad ones" [@reeveSocratesMeetsThrasymachus1985]; "Socrates' arguments against this thesis are all weak and unconvincing to an amazing degree" [@annasIntroductionPlatoRepublic1981{50}]; "The arguments which Socrates deploys … do not, or at any rate should not, satisfy anyone" [@flewRespondingPlatoThrasymachus1995]; Some who try to defend Socrates nevertheless thinks his argument at least need further explanation and is not able to refute Thrasymachus [@barneyCalliclesThrasymachus2017; @dorterSocratesRefutationThrasymachus1974].
[^3]: In this paper, I will use art and craft interchangeably to refer to τέχνη. Also, some scholars have pointed out the importance of craft analogy in understanding Socrates' arguments. However, I found none of them have given a satisfying account. Reeve and Irwin think that Socrates is arguing nonsense and only silences Thrasymachus with verbal tricks. Therefore, Plato himself rejects craft analogy and this explains why this Socratic method disappears in his late dialogue [@reeveSocratesMeetsThrasymachus1985;@irwinPlatoMoralTheory1977]. In response to this, Barney defended that Plato did not abandon craft analogy but on the contrary completed it in Republic [@barneyTecheModelVirtue2020]. I agree with most of the conclusions from Barney, but she nevertheless thinks all Socrates' refutations presuppose unjustified Platonic premises that can only be explained later in Book II-IX. This interpretation, however, does not explain why on earth would Thrasymachus yield, blushing and sweating. It also implies that if Thrasymachus does not accept them, then he is never refuted.
[^4]: The discussion over which definition Thrasymachus offers is his real stance is quite nuanced, but they generally speaking fall into three positions respectively. On the side of (a), including @barkerPoliticalThoughtPlato1959, p. 95; @crombieExaminationPlatoDoctrines1963, p. 81; @dorterSocratesRefutationThrasymachus1974; @reeveSocratesMeetsThrasymachus1985; Those who support (b) are @winspearGenesisPlatoThought1956, p. 190; @houraniThrasymachusDefinitionJustice1962; @straussCityMan1978, p. 75; @benardeteSocratesSecondSailing1989, pp. 22-24; @bloomRepublicPlatoSecond1991, pp. 326-328; @staufferPlatoIntroductionQuestion2001, pp. 62-63; Some also prefer (c), i.e. @kerferdDoctrineThrasymachusPlato1947; @sparshottSOCRATESTHRASYMACHUS1966; @hendersonDefenseThrasymachus1970; @nicholsonUnravellingThrasymachusArguments1974; @annasIntroductionPlatoRepublic1981, p. 37; Another popular way to classify the positions are nihilism (there is no such thing as justice), conventionalism (justice is and is only the law) and immoralism (justice is what you think it is, but it is bad). Most of the time, conventionalists are the ones who take (b), and immoralism (c). Those who prefer (a) sometimes adopt nihilism, but also possible to adopt conventionalism.
[^5]: see @chappellVirtuesThrasymachus1993, @whiteThrasymachusDiplomat1995,  @santasMethodsReasoningJustice2006, @andersonThrasymachusSophisticAccount2016, @barneyCalliclesThrasymachus2017
[^6]: To the best of my knowledge, Welton is the first and the only few who has noticed the importance of this prohibition [@weltonThrasymachusVsSocrates2006]. He explains the reason why they are not precise or clear as they are too general and uninformative. So far so good, but he then argues that if something is general, then it is theoretical. Therefore Welton claims that Thrasymachus believes a proper definition for justice must not be theoretical like mathematics, but practical and empirical. I think this move is dubious for two reasons. First, Welton did not provide, and as far as I am concerned, there is no textual evidence for the claim that Thrasymachus does think so. On the contrary, what Thrasymachus offers, especially the "ruler in precise speech", is nevertheless general and theoretical. Second, Welton also mentioned the connection between Thrasymachus' account and the dialogue *Cleitophon*, but remained silent about the reason why Cleitophon thinks these definitions are improper. Welton might have been intentionally silent because he is skeptical about the authenticity of *Cleitophon*, but at least it is solid textual evidence and its authenticity is generally conceded [on the discussion of authenticity, see @blitsSocraticTeachingJustice1985;@roochnikRiddleCleitophon1984;@cliffordCleitophon1987;@bruellSocraticEducationIntroduction1999].
[^7]: In Meno, Socrates claims that a definition should be the one form shared by the many and varied (72c). Let alone the different view of knowledge between *Republic* and *Meno*, form is undoubtedly a standard type of knowledge, thereby entailing the calculation of cause\[αἰτίας λογισμῷ\] (98a). Thus, a definition should explain the cause of the many and varied instances.
[^8]: The reformulation from "if A then B" to "B because A", and "iff. A then B" to "B only because A" will raise some doubts because material implication does not entail causality. To explore Platonic causality with logic symbols is far beyond this paper's theme, and since here I'm using the common meaning of if-then, I will simply allow this move.
[^9]: Throughout the lines of reasoning, several propositions can derive the definition of justice, i.e. justice is what the stronger declares. But since "because" is a transitive relation, the other definitions are reducible to this one. Therefore, "justice is the advantage of the stronger" is the most fundamental cause and prior to other definitions.
[^10]: A possible doubt is that Thrasymachus uses "unjust" to evaluate the paradigmatic tyrant, and this is because Thrasymachus applies "justice is really someone else's good" to the ruler. Thus, for instance, Maguire argued that Thrasymachus offers a new concept that makes him inconsistent [@maguireThrasymachusPlato1971]. However, in 343c, he is explicitly arguing from the standpoint of the subject instead of arguing universally. Also, he makes it clear that he is coherent by adding "the advantage of the man who is stronger and rules" right after he says "justice is really someone else's good". Therefore, when he is applying "justice is really someone else's good" to the ruler, he is using the common view generalized from the necessary property of justice, which can be derived from his previous definition. Yet for Thrasymachus, only the one who uses ruling craft gets to declare what is just, and evaluating the ruler from the side of the subject is theoretically invalid. Nevertheless, since Thrasymachus is trying to speak to Socrates, who is "the ruled" and (to some extent) accepts the common view, it can serve as an accessible description in loose speech. 
[^11]: For a comprehensive preliminary analysis, see @annasIntroductionPlatoRepublic1981, @barneySocratesRefutationThrasymachus2006, and @crossPlatoRepublicPhilosophical1971.
[^12]: Compare *Nicomachean Ethics*, I.1094a1-15. 
[^13]: It seems that in some arts, like medicine and piloting art, the craftsman is aware of the good of their art, i.e. a doctor cures. Yet it does not follow that the good is external. Instead, it is hypothesized by name of the craft without knowledge. A doctor does not have knowledge about the good of health because he cannot give a systematic account of it (Gorgias 456b), and there seems no good reason for someone who possesses the knowledge of medicine to not bring disease (Republic, 333e). Only the name "doctor" specifies its duty is to bring health, not disease. However, it seems that "ruler" does not specify any kind of rule. Nevertheless, it is still plausible to say that for the self-contained model, the craftsman only considers the duty of the craft, not his own advantage. Therefore, a tyrannical ruling craft in itself is possible, yet it is practiced by a ruler not because he wants wealth or power, but because he thinks somehow he has the obligation to be a tyrant. Therefore, it first does not contradict that all arts consider that of which it is the art because tyrannical ruling art is indeed of tyranny, and also is sufficient to refute Thrasymachus' claim that the ruler only considers his own advantage.
