---
title: Socrates and Thrasymachus on Ruling Craft and Justice
subtitle: 
author: Tang Zongyuan
abstract: 
date: 
institute: 
numbersections: false
toc: false
toc-title: 
reference-section-title: Secondary Literature
mainfont: FreeSerif
CJKmainfont: 
include-before: 
linestretch: "1"
fontsize: "12"
---

# Introduction

In _Republic I_, Thrasymachus enters the scene with a definition of justice, only to be refuted by Socrates. However, how exactly this happened is rather puzzling.

In this paper, I will solve this puzzle by arguing that the fundamental disagreement between Thrasymachus and Socrates is their different understanding of the ruling craft.[^1] I will present textual evidence that helps reconcile Thrasymachus' three distinct statements into a coherent standpoint, which is based on a particular understanding of the ruling craft. Socrates, in response, effectively challenges the central point of Thrasymachus' ruling craft by employing two craft models. By doing so, I hope to reveal how Plato uses craft analogy to understand ruling and justice. I will conclude this paper with an examination of why Thrasymachus was unable to withstand Socrates' arguments and why, in the end, Socrates' argument falls short for Glaucon and Adeimantus. 

# The Puzzle

Socrates' response to Thrasymachus' challenge in the next eight books necessitates a clear understanding of Thrasymachus' true position. However, the inconsistency in Thrasymachus' stance has created difficulties in comprehending it. Most scholars have agreed that Thrasymachus offers three different statements about justice, namely 

(a) justice is the advantage of the stronger (338c),[^2] 
(b) justice is to obey the rulers (339c), and 
(c) justice is someone else's good (343b).

But (a) conflicts with (b) when a ruler errs and makes commands not to their own advantage.[^3] (a) and (c) are at odds when the stronger pursue his own advantage. This has caused quite a brawl over what Thrasymachus' real position is among the scholars over the last century.[^4] However, to the best of my knowledge, none of them have offered a satisfying explanation. Either, they focused solely on Thrasymachus' perspective and overlooked Socrates' refutation. Given that it is Plato who is behind all the interlocutors, this neglects a crucial aspect of Platonic dialogue, where interlocutors from both sides contribute to the point that Plato wants to make. Or, some argued that, under their interpretation, Thrasymachus' definition is strong enough to withstand all of Socrates' refutations. However, if that is the case, what is the purpose of Plato writing a plot in which Socrates successfully uses unsound arguments to defeat a professional sophist?

Some recent scholars are also not satisfied with the existing interpretation. They contend that there is insufficient evidence to reconcile Thrasymachus' account and have begun to argue that he is not presenting a consistent definition, but rather providing empirical descriptions.[^5] Yet, I have found no conclusive reason to embrace this recent trend and Thrasymachus is indeed implying that he is offering a consistent definition by emphasizing (a) five times throughout his speech. 

Socrates' refutation of Thrasymachus, on the other hand, is even more perplexing. Socrates provided five distinctive arguments to refute Thrasymachus: 

(A) the "nature of craft" argument (341c-342e), 
(B) the "wage-earning" argument (345e-347a), 
(C) the "non-pleonectic" argument (349b-350c), 
(D) the "gang-of-thieves" argument (351b-352b), and 
(E) the "function" argument (352d-354a). 

Many commentators believe none of these arguments are sound.[^6] Since this paper only concerns (A), (B), and (C) (which I will explain later), I will only briefly highlight the issues with these three arguments here. 

\(A\) seems to show that all crafts only consider the advantage of that of which it is the craft. However, it would be absurd to claim that robbery considers the advantage of the victim. 

\(B\) illustrates that since rulers are paid wages, it is the additional wage-earning craft that considers the advantage of the ruler, not the ruling craft. Yet this would contradict (A) since according to (A), the wage-earning craft should, miraculously, consider the advantage of money, not the ruler. Additionally, this argument is rooted in the empirical claim that rulers receive wages, but this is a digression because Thrasymachus is not discussing how ruler usually rules, but rather what ruling craft should be. 

\(C\) says that, first, the unjust wants to get the better of all, but the just only wants to get the better of the unjust. Second, all the knowledgeable only want to get the better of those who lack knowledge while those who lack knowledge want to get the better of all. Therefore, the just are the knowledgeable and the unjust the ignorant. But it is not at all clear why, for example, even in the supporting example Socrates gave, a lyre player would not want to get the better of another lyre player.

Not only commentators, but even Plato himself, through the mouth of Glaucon and Adeimantus, thinks these arguments are unconvincing. However, these arguments must be strong enough to refute Thrasymachus and even make him, as a professional sophist, sweat and blush upon them. Therefore, in what sense is Socrates' argument on justice sufficient to refute Thrasymachus, and in what sense is Socrates' argument insufficient and unconvincing, so that he needs another nine books to defend justice?

# Thrasymachus' justice and ruling craft

Given the ambiguity in Thrasymachus' position, it would be helpful to begin by addressing a preliminary question: what kind of answer to what is justice does Thrasymachus think is most apt? Fortunately, Plato has left us with some solid clues. In 336d, Thrasymachus prohibits Socrates from saying justice is the needful\[τὸ δέον\], or the helpful\[τὸ ὠφέλιμον\], or the profitable\[τὸ λυσιτελοῦν\], or the gainful\[τὸ κερδαλέον\], or the advantageous\[τὸ συμφέρον\] because they are neither clear nor precise.[^7] Although Thrasymachus did not explain why they are not clear and precise, his company Cleitophon offers an explanation. In the dialogue *Cleitophon*, Cleitophon prohibits an almost identical list of definitions in 409c when he asks Socrates' disciples about justice: the advantageous\[τὸ συμφέρον\], the needful\[τὸ δέον\], the helpful\[τὸ ὠφέλιμον\] and the profitable\[τὸ λυσιτελοῦν\]. He lists them in that they apply not only to justice but also to other crafts, i.e. carpentry also knows what is needful or helpful regarding making wooden implements. Therefore, Cleitophon is saying that a proper answer to justice should restrict the scope that it refers to so that it is neither broader nor narrower than what justice refers to. 

Cleitophon's reason for prohibition should also apply to Thrasymachus because there is a clear connection between *Cleitophon* and *Republic*, and between Cleitophon and Thrasymachus. @cliffordCleitophon1987 has pointed out that:

1. *Cleitophon* is the only dialogue, other than the *Republic*, in which the characters Cleitophon, Socrates, Lysias, and Thrasymachus all appear. 
2. *Cleitophon* is also the only dialogue that is named after a character who is also present in the *Republic*.
3. Cleitophon is the only figure who neither addresses Socrates nor is addressed by him in *Republic*. The *Cleitophon* depicts the missing confrontation between Cleitophon and Socrates.

In addition, apart from the two lists of prohibition being almost identical, Cleitophon is portrayed as someone who gets disappointed with Socrates' elenchus and turns to Thrasymachus for real wisdom (*Cleitophon*, 406a). Thus, Cleitophon probably has learnt this challenge from Thrasymachus, and Thrasymachus should also hold the view that a proper answer to what is justice should restrict neither broader nor narrower scope. In other words, if $P$ is the answer to what is justice then $x$ is just, iff. $x$ fits the description of $P$, which obviously takes the form of a definition.

With this conclusion, we can exclude some of our candidates. (c) is excluded because many crafts, i.e. medicine and carpentry, also care for someone else's good. (a) also seems to be excluded because it is explicitly revealed by Socrates that beef is also advantageous for the stronger, but it is absurd to say beef is just (338c) and thus (a) is not an apt answer. What remains appears to be (b).

However, (a) is actually free from previous exclusion by Thrasymachus' putting forward "the ruler in precise speech". The structural reason for Socrates' counterexample is that only those public affairs, which concern interpersonal interaction, can be evaluated by the word "just", while private matters, like eating beef, do not have such attribute. But according to Thrasymachus, we do not call someone a craftsman, i.e. doctor, or calculator, in precise speech when the one makes mistakes in his craft. In my view, this precise speech in fact replaces the craftsman with the craft itself, which is defined by its job (consider 346a). This is because only the craft itself, by definition, necessitates its job so that it ensures the infallibility of the craftsman in precise speech. This move rejects the counterexample that Socrates raises for the following reason. If someone does something that has nothing to do with at least one essential element of the craft's job, then he is not using the craft. For someone who holds ruling office, private affairs like eating beef have nothing to do with the subject, which is an essential element of the ruling craft's job. It follows that if the one who holds ruling office is engaged in private affairs, he is not using the ruling craft. Since the ruler is now defined as the one who is using the ruling craft, private affairs no longer count as the advantage of the stronger.

Then how do we choose between (a) and (b)? First, I believe (a) is preferred by Thrasymachus. He repeatedly emphasizes it for at least five times (339a, 341a, 343a, 343c, 344c), but only concedes (b) when it is brought up by Socrates. Also, Thrasymachus rejects Cleitophon's advice when Cleitophon suggests that Thrasymachus should replace his initial statement with "justice is what the stronger believes to be his advantage". But if (b) is Thrasymachus' true position and nothing more, he should have accepted it. Second, (a) is Thrasymachus' real position on account of my following reconstruction:

1. Iff. someone uses ruling craft, then he sets down something and it is best for him. (341a)
2. Iff. someone is the stronger, he uses ruling craft. (339a)
3. Iff. if someone uses ruling craft and sets down something, then he declares it to be just for the ruled. (339a)
4. $\therefore$ Iff. something is best for the stronger (the advantage of the stronger), then he declares it to be just for the ruled. (from 1, 2, 3)

So far, this conclusion does not follow that (a). But since what Thrasymachus initially said is "justice is *nothing other than* …", I believe he is implying that his account is exclusively true and any other definition of justice is impossible. Therefore, I interpret Thrasymachus as accepting the premise that:

5. Iff. the stronger declares something to be just for the ruled, then for ruled, it is just.

And also by the meaning of words, it is obvious that:

6. If something is best for someone, then it is the advantage of him.

In addition, when Plato is seeking the definition of justice, he is seeking the reason or cause\[αἴτιον\] for which just actions are called just.[^8] Therefore:

7. If something is just because P, then justice is P.
8. If something is just only because P, then justice is nothing other than P.

Thus, to get the definition of justice, we need to reformulate the proposition into "something is just, (only) because $P$":[^9]

9. For the ruled, something is just only because the stronger declares it to be just for the ruled. (from 4, 5)
10. The stronger declares something to be just for the ruled only because he uses ruling craft and sets down something. (from 3)
11. Someone uses ruling craft and sets down something because it is his advantage. (338e)
12. For any proposition $P, Q, R$, if $P$ because $Q$ and $Q$ because $R$, then $P$ because $R$. 
13. For the ruled, something is just only because it is the advantage of the stronger. (from 1, 9, 10, 11, 12)
14. $\therefore$ For the ruled, justice is nothing other than the advantage of the stronger. (from 8, 13)

Throughout the lines of reasoning, several propositions can derive the definition of justice. For instance, a proposition similar to (b), "justice is what the stronger declares to be just", can be derived from 8 and 9. However, nothing in Thrasymachus' account, according to my reconstruction, directly derives that justice is to *obey* the rulers. Taking a step back, even if "what the stronger declares" may entail the duty to obey, (a) is still logically prior to (b) because if someone asks "Why is it just to obey rulers?", one can explain that it serves the advantage of the stronger. In other words, if allowed to use the vocabulary of Aristotle, (a) is the first principle\[ἀρχή\] of Thrasymachus' theory of justice and thus prior to other definitions.[^10]

According to my reconstruction, when Thrasymachus insists (a) is his answer, he is actually saying "for the ruled, justice is nothing other than the advantage of the stronger". On this interpretation, (a) is coherent with (c) when the ruler does something according to his own advantage. This is because the one who uses the ruling craft, according to Thrasymachus' account, does not rule himself. Therefore, neither (a) restricts (c), nor (c) restricts (a), as many have argued. Instead, Thrasymachus is arguing globally that justice does not apply to the one who uses ruling craft, that is the stronger, because they are not the ruled.[^11]

Now it is clear that (a) is Thrasymachus' real position, and it means that for the ruled, if something is just, it is because it serves the advantage of the one who uses the ruling craft. As we can see, it is his special ruling craft that did all the weight-lifting, excludes counterexamples of beef being just and ruler making mistakes, and cleared the inconsistency between (a) and (c). Also, the key notion, the stronger, is defined by the ruling craft, and Thrasymachus' other accounts are nothing novel except how he defines the ruling craft. Because of this specific understanding of ruling craft, just citizens are produced by it as fat sheep are produced by shepherd's craft. Moreover, the one who uses ruling craft will not make himself just, just like the shepherd's craft does not make a shepherd fat. Thrasymachus also presupposes a dubious proposition 5 that only the ruling craft under his account can produce justice. Therefore, Thrasymachus leaves open at least two possible objections. The first is to question whether his "all-mighty" ruling craft is possible, and the second is to provide an alternative of how justice comes into being. In the next section, I will argue that Socrates is precisely adopting the first objection in his refutation.

# Socrates' refutation to Thrasymachus

A thorough and detailed analysis and evaluation of all these five rich and nuanced arguments would be way too lengthy.[^12] Since Thrasymachus yielded, blushing and sweating between (C) and (D), I will argue in the following passage that Socrates is consistently using his craft model in (A), (B), and (C) to reveal that at least Thrasymachus has no knowledge about the ruling craft he is proposing. The bonus argument (D) and (E) will not be discussed in detail.

I will start with the first obvious puzzle lies between (A) and (B). According to (A), all crafts consider only the advantage of that of which it is the craft, but not the craftsman's own advantage (342c). According to (B), wage-earning craft considers the advantage of the craftsman (346b). 

To resolve this conflict in Socrates' argument, I want to call attention to *Theages* 142a-b, where Socrates made it clear that farming craft rules subordinate crafts like reaping, harvesting, etc. and carpentry rules sawing, hole-boring, etc. If we consider, for instance, hole-boring craft, we would find that so far as one exclusively practices hole-boring craft, though he may possess the skill to bore various types of holes in the most intricate ways, he would not know where or what kind of hole to bore precisely in order to build a chair, unless guided, or say, ruled, by a carpenter or equipped with knowledge of carpentry himself. I believe this reveals an important attribute for ruling in craft analogy: the hierarchy of crafts is formed only when the superior craft is able to provide a systematic account for the inferior craft.[^13] To illustrate, for hole-boring, as long as the hole-borer accepts the premise that it is good to make a chair, then it accepts the rule of carpentry because the carpenter is able to define the good of the borer based on his systematic knowledge of carpentry. However, the carpenter cannot explain why the borer must make a chair, unless he can yet give another account for the good of carpentry, which goes beyond the scope of the knowledge of carpentry. For example, he can explain that we ought to build a chair because there is a need in the city. In doing so, he invokes knowledge related to ruling a city.

Given these, we can get the conclusion that there are two models for a craft: the self-contained model and the ruled model. In the ruled model where craft $a$ is ruled by craft $b$, the craftsman of $b$ is able to offer a systematic explanation of the good of $a$ with the knowledge of $b$, though his explanation can go as far as the hypothesis of the good of $b$. On the other hand, in the self-contained model where the craftsman pursues the perfection of the craft in itself [consider Republic, 370c. Also see @barneyTecheModelVirtue2020{79-84}], the craftsman may be able to do whatever the knowledge of the craft contains, but he cannot have knowledge about the good of the craft.

Now we can go back to wage-earning craft in Book I with some clues. Initially, the wage-earning craft is brought up in 345c by Socrates because he accuses Thrasymachus of inconsistency, for he has agreed that a true craftsman only cares for that of which it is the craft. Therefore, a true shepherd "cares for nothing but providing what is best for what it has been set over", while the Thrasymachean shepherd who fattens the sheep is not really a shepherd but a wage-earner (345c). With the previous explanation, this absurd accusation of Socrates now makes sense because Socrates is actually accusing Thrasymachus of changing the model he applies.

In (A), Thrasymachus has agreed that there is no defect or error present in any craft. Thus, he has adopted the self-contained model because a self-contained craft does not need anything external.[^14] However, since the craftsman in this model cannot give a rational account for the good of the craft he is practicing, it contradicts Thrasymachus' claim that the ruler uses the ruling craft because he knows what is best for himself. When Thrasymachus uses the shepherd who fattens sheep to fight back, he moves to the ruled model because he has realized he has chosen the wrong model in (A).[^15]  This change of position is confirmed by Plato delineating Thrasymachus as having tried to put up a fight but finally conceded the seemingly weak and unsound argument (A) with great resistance. If the counterexample of the shepherd is a good blow without changing position, there is no need for Plato to portray Thrasymachus as conceding Socrates' argument at first and then suddenly managing to think of the counterexample after a while. 

However, this change of position did not save Thrasymachus from being self-contradictory. If Thrasymachus is to take the ruled model, and the ruler who uses this craft rules all the citizens, then it follows that: First, the ruling craft is yet ruled by the knowledge of what is best for himself, which, according to 343b-344c, is the knowledge of injustice; Second, only when the good of all crafts in the city is given by the knowledge of the ruling craft can the ruler legitimately rule according to knowledge. Socrates reveals in (B) that the knowledge of the ruling craft is not about earning wages not only because empirically rulers usually get paid. Moreover, it cannot be identical with that of the wage-earning craft out of necessity. Assuming that they are identical, then just as a carpenter tells a borer how he should bore so that they can make a chair together, the ruler tells the subjects they should practice their crafts so that the ruler can be unjustly gain wealth from them. However, according to Thrasymachus' account, the unjust ruler should produce just citizens who do not think injustice is good. Then it follows that they will not accept the unjust account provided by the unjust ruler.

But one may say the knowledge of the ruling craft may be broader than wage-earning craft. The ruler doesn't have to provide the good for citizens on account of wage-earning knowledge, but he must know it. Then Socrates proposed (C), where he starts to refute in a dual aspect. 

The first aspect is still about the ruling craft in the city. Only when a borer has knowledge about a superior craft (i.e. carpentry) can he know exactly what kind of hole should he bore. Similarly, a lyre tuner's job is to tighten or loosen the strings of a lyre, but the knowledge of manipulating the strings does not determine the appropriate string tension. Only when a lyre tuner possesses musical knowledge can he determine how to adjust the correct tension.[^16] However, Thrasymachus believes that when a craftsman, i.e. doctor, farmer, etc. is equipped with the knowledge of the Thrasymachus' ruling craft, he still does not know when to cease practicing his craft because of pleonexia. If the knowledge of the Thrasymachus' ruling craft cannot give any guidance on what kind of specified task should one perform with his craft knowledge, then there is no reason why any craftsman needs this rule. Therefore, (C) has shown that at least Thrasymachus is ignorant about the knowledge on the basis of which the Thrasymachean rule is justified. So far, Thrasymachus has been fully refuted: Thrasymachus' ruling craft cannot adopt the self-contained model, and if it applies the ruled model, either Thrasymachus has no knowledge about it, or it is impossible at all.

Yet, Socrates also opens a second aspect beginning from (C), which is the internal rule in the soul. Also, it is clear that in (D), Socrates is arguing from the dual aspect of city and soul, while (E) is solely from the aspect of the soul. This aspect is important because it explains how Socrates (or Plato) thinks about the relationship between justice and ruling craft: a just person knows how to rule himself so that he can have a harmonious soul, like a musical man knows how to tune a lyre so that the strings can produce harmony. In this way, Socrates adopts the ruled model for ruling craft, and the knowledge rules ruling craft is justice. Though this aspect is not necessary for refuting Thrasymachus and the premise of the tripartite soul is not justified yet, this aspect can nevertheless work as a trailer for the next eight books to come. 

# Conclusion

If we now look back on the whole process of the refutation, it is not hard to see why Thrasymachus failed. First, his demand for knowledge instead of mere belief led him to craft analogy (consider his rejection of Cleitophon's proposal). Second, Socrates introduced a suppressed premise: something is called a ruling craft if and only if it can rule out of knowledge, which means that he can ultimately give an account for the good of all crafts in the city. Third, Thrasymachus failed to give an account of the good that the ruler provides. he only has knowledge about some defects of justice, but he does not have any further positive knowledge about justice or injustice.

There are some possible ways out for Thrasymachus. For instance, he can claim that a ruler can rule out of luck instead of using the ruling craft, or that the ruling craft is the craft of seizing power, thereby avoiding the demand that the ruler must rule out of legitimacy from craft analogy. Also, he may propose some free market theory in response to (C) (although it would be anachronistic, and history seems to have proven that an entirely free market powered by pleonexia will not work). Yet we would admit that ruling out of knowledge and legitimacy would be the most ideal solution, and since Thrasymachus is a sophist who admires knowledge, his failure seems inevitable.

Nevertheless, we can also see that Socrates' arguments only show that injustice cannot be the knowledge for *ruling craft*, but they do not provide a sufficient reason why justice itself is advantageous so that no individual should live an unjust life. Thus it is open to Glaucon and Adeimantus' skepticism and calls for the necessity for the discourse in Book II-XI, which takes the second objection mentioned in the previous section and explains how justice comes into being.


[^1]: Some scholars have pointed out the importance of craft analogy in understanding Socrates' arguments. However, I found none of them have given a satisfying account. Reeve and Irwin think that Socrates is arguing nonsense and only silences Thrasymachus with verbal tricks. Therefore, Plato himself rejects craft analogy and this explains why this Socratic method disappears in his late dialogue [@reeveSocratesMeetsThrasymachus1985;@irwinPlatoMoralTheory1977]. In response to this, Barney defended that Plato did not abandon craft analogy but on the contrary completed it in Republic [@barneyTecheModelVirtue2020]. I agree with most of the conclusions from Barney, but she nevertheless thinks all Socrates' refutations presuppose unjustified Platonic premises that can only be explained later in Book II-IX. This interpretation, however, does not explain why on earth would Thrasymachus yield, blushing and sweating. It also implies that if Thrasymachus does not accept them, then he is never refuted.
[^2]: Thrasymachus presupposes that the stronger means the ruler. I will not question further on this premise, since it is off the topic. Thus, I will use "the stronger" and "the ruler" interchangeably to mean "the ruler" in this paper.
[^3]: This conflict has been pointed out explicitly by Socrates in 339b-e. Thrasymachus resolves this by the ruler "in precise speech", which defines the ruler as infallible. Some have argued that this does not resolve the conflict [i.e. @crossPlatoRepublicPhilosophical1971;@maguireThrasymachusPlato1971]. However, I agree with those who found it to be a plausible solution for the following reasons. First, as Reeve has pointed out, Socrates (or say Plato himself) also adopts this view [detailed textual evidence, see @reeveSocratesMeetsThrasymachus1985]. Also, some thought it was not resolved because they misunderstood (b) as "justice is the law", and they understood the law as the conventional one. This is wrong because since Thrasymachus has moved to the "precise speech", the law should also depend on precise speech and therefore should be reduced to what the ruler in precise speech declares, not factual or conventional laws. Therefore, I only take the conflict between (a) and (c) as the major one and accept "ruler in precise speech" in the following discussion.
[^4]: The discussion over which definition Thrasymachus offers is his real stance is quite nuanced, but they generally speaking fall into three positions respectively. On the side of (a), see @barkerPoliticalThoughtPlato1959, p. 95; @crombieExaminationPlatoDoctrines1963, p. 81; @dorterSocratesRefutationThrasymachus1974; @reeveSocratesMeetsThrasymachus1985; Those who support (b) are @winspearGenesisPlatoThought1956, p. 190; @houraniThrasymachusDefinitionJustice1962; @straussCityMan1978, p. 75; @benardeteSocratesSecondSailing1989, pp. 22-24; @bloomRepublicPlatoSecond1991, pp. 326-328; @staufferPlatoIntroductionQuestion2001, pp. 62-63; Some also prefer (c), i.e. @kerferdDoctrineThrasymachusPlato1947; @sparshottSOCRATESTHRASYMACHUS1966; @hendersonDefenseThrasymachus1970; @nicholsonUnravellingThrasymachusArguments1974; @annasIntroductionPlatoRepublic1981, p. 37; Another popular way to classify these positions is into three categories: nihilism (which asserts that there is no such thing as justice), conventionalism (which posits that justice is exclusively the law), and immoralism (which claims that justice is a matter of personal opinion, but inherently bad). Typically, conventionalism adheres to (b), while immoralism corresponds to (c). Those who favor (a) may sometimes lean towards nihilism interpretation, but it is also possible for them to adopt a conventionalism interpretation.
[^5]:  see @chappellVirtuesThrasymachus1993, @whiteThrasymachusDiplomat1995,  @santasMethodsReasoningJustice2006, @andersonThrasymachusSophisticAccount2016, @barneyCalliclesThrasymachus2017
[^6]: Many hold very critical views about Socrates' argument, i.e. "Thrasymachus has produced two powerful and convincing arguments, Socrates five bad ones" [@reeveSocratesMeetsThrasymachus1985]; "Socrates' arguments against this thesis are all weak and unconvincing to an amazing degree" [@annasIntroductionPlatoRepublic1981{50}]; "The arguments which Socrates deploys … do not, or at any rate should not, satisfy anyone" [@flewRespondingPlatoThrasymachus1995]; Some who try to defend Socrates nevertheless thinks his argument at least need further explanation and is not able to refute Thrasymachus [@barneyCalliclesThrasymachus2017; @dorterSocratesRefutationThrasymachus1974].
[^7]: To the best of my knowledge, Welton is the first and the only few who has noticed the importance of this prohibition [@weltonThrasymachusVsSocrates2006]. He explains the reason why they are not precise or clear as they are too general and uninformative. So far so good, but he then argues that if something is general, then it is theoretical. Therefore Welton claims that Thrasymachus believes a proper definition for justice must not be theoretical like mathematics, but practical and empirical. I think this move is dubious for two reasons. First, Welton did not provide, and as far as I am concerned, there is no textual evidence for the claim that Thrasymachus does think so. On the contrary, what Thrasymachus offers, especially the "ruler in precise speech", is nevertheless general and theoretical. Second, Welton also mentioned the connection between Thrasymachus' account and the dialogue *Cleitophon*, but remained silent about the reason why Cleitophon thinks these definitions are improper. Welton might have been intentionally silent because he is skeptical about the authenticity of *Cleitophon*, but at least it is solid textual evidence and its authenticity is generally conceded [on the discussion of authenticity, see @blitsSocraticTeachingJustice1985;@roochnikRiddleCleitophon1984;@cliffordCleitophon1987;@bruellSocraticEducationIntroduction1999].
[^8]: In Meno, Socrates claims that a definition should be the one form shared by the many and varied (72c). Let alone the different view of knowledge between *Republic* and *Meno*, form is undoubtedly a standard type of knowledge, thereby entailing the calculation of cause\[αἰτίας λογισμῷ\] (98a). Thus, a definition should explain the cause of the many and varied instances.
[^9]: The reformulation from "if A then B" to "B because A", and "iff. A then B" to "B only because A" will raise some doubts because material implication does not entail causality. To explore Platonic causality with logic symbols is far beyond this paper's theme, and since here I'm using the common meaning of if-then, I will simply allow this move.
[^10]: In 347e, Socrates has revealed that Thrasymachus' definition of justice (whatever it is) is yet established on the fundamental premise that "the life of the unjust man is stronger than that of the just mean". Therefore, strictly speaking, this is the real ἀρχή of Thrasymachus' theory. Anyhow, in the scope of my reconstruction, (a) would be the ἀρχή and prior to (b).
[^11]: A possible challenge is that Thrasymachus uses "unjust" to evaluate the paradigmatic tyrant, and this is because Thrasymachus applies "justice is really someone else's good" to the ruler. Thus, for instance, Maguire argued that Thrasymachus offers a new concept that makes him inconsistent [@maguireThrasymachusPlato1971]. However, in 343c, he is explicitly arguing from the standpoint of the subject instead of arguing universally. Also, he makes it clear that he is coherent by adding "the advantage of the man who is stronger and rules" right after he says "justice is really someone else's good". Therefore, when he is applying "justice is really someone else's good" to the ruler, he is using the common view generalized from the necessary property of justice, which can be derived from his previous definition. Yet for Thrasymachus, only the one who uses the ruling craft gets to declare what is just, and evaluating the ruler from the side of the subject is theoretically invalid. Nevertheless, since Thrasymachus is trying to speak to Socrates, who is "the ruled" and (to some extent) accepts the common view, it can serve as an accessible description in loose speech. 
[^12]: For a comprehensive preliminary analysis, see @annasIntroductionPlatoRepublic1981, @barneySocratesRefutationThrasymachus2006, and @crossPlatoRepublicPhilosophical1971.
[^13]: Compare *Nicomachean Ethics*, I.1094a1-15. 
[^14]: In some crafts, like medicine and piloting craft, the craftsman is aware of the good of their craft, i.e. a doctor cures. Yet it does not follow that their good is external. Instead, it is hypothesized by the name of the craft without knowledge. A doctor does not have knowledge about the good of health because he cannot give a systematic account of it (*Gorgias*, 456b), and there seems no good reason for someone who possesses the knowledge of medicine to not bring disease (*Republic*, 333e). Only the name "doctor" specifies its duty is to bring health, not disease. However, it seems that "ruler" does not specify any kind of rule. Nevertheless, it is still plausible to say that for the self-contained model, the craftsman only considers the duty of the craft, not his own advantage. Therefore, a tyrannical ruling craft in itself is possible, yet it is practiced by a ruler not because he wants wealth or power, but because he thinks somehow he has the obligation to be a tyrant. Therefore, it is sufficient to refute Thrasymachus' claim that the ruler only considers his own advantage. In other words, I resolve the issue of (A) by taking its the conclusion as "a craft considers that of which it is the craft" instead of "a craft considers *the advantage of* that of which it is the craft". My view is backed by the original sentence "οὐδὲ ἄλλη τέχνη οὐδεμία ἑαυτῇ—οὐδὲ γὰρ προσδεῖται—ἀλλ᾽ ἐκείνῳ οὗ τέχνη ἐστίν" in 342c, in which the advantage\[τὸ συμφέρον\] is never mentioned. Both Bloom and Grube mistranslated "advantage" into the sentence probably because the context implies the meaning of "advantage", but this is not what Socrates precisely said [@bloomRepublicPlatoSecond1991{20};@grubeRepublic1997{987}].
[^15]:  When Thrasymachus switches to the ruled model, the incoherence between (A) and (B) is resolved because the conclusion in (A) is drawn from the self-contained model. It no longer applies in the ruled model since the craftsman now considers the good of his craft, which is beyond the knowledge of his craft. According to Thrasymachus' "knowledge" of injustice, the good of earning wages considers the advantage of the craftsman himself. Therefore, wage-earning craft can consider the advantage of the craftsman. 
[^16]:  In the issue of (C), "all the knowledgeable only wants to get the better of those who lack knowledge while those who lack knowledge want to get the better of all" is more plausible than it seems according to my interpretation. This is because if a craftsman knows the good of his craft, he is thus guided to do a specific task without the need to consider other people, thereby excluding pleonexia. He gets the better of those who do not know only because he *knows* why his work is better. On the other hand, based on Thrasymachus' premise that all men without the knowledge of good are motivated by pleonexia, those who do not know the good of his craft will seek for more wealth and power than anyone else, thereby wanting to get the better of all. Also, the example Socrates offers is more plausible than it seems because lyre-tuning is a subordinate craft for a lyre player. Therefore, lyre players do not get the better of one another regarding lyre-tuning because they all possess the knowledge about what is the correct pitch for each string. A lyre player may want to get the better of another lyre player on playing a lyre. Yet, according to Plato, it is only because he lacks the knowledge of what is good lyre music, which requires the knowledge of, say, music criticism, which is beyond lyre-playing craft.