


Dear Admissions Committee,

I am writing to provide a reference for Tang Zongyuan, whom I have had the privilege of knowing for the past two years. Tang has been a dedicated and exceptional student in my courses and in a reading group we have both been a part of. I am more than pleased to endorse him for further studies.

I first met Tang in the spring of 2022 when he enrolled in my course "Thucydides and The History of the Peloponnesian War." Over the course of that semester, I have noticed his keen intellect and well-trained reading skills. His assignment of reading notes of Plutarch's biography on Pericles and Alcibiades is structurally well-organized and contains original academic comments and analysis that is sharp to reveal the key tension in democracy, virtue education and various important aspect. His active participation and insightful contributions during class discussions were also indicative of his profound engagement with the subject matter.

In the following semesters, Tang continued to impress me with his academic dedication. In the fall of 2022 and the spring of 2023, he pursued the study of Ancient Greek, a challenging subject, where he displayed a commendable commitment to mastering this complex language. During this course, we read the original Greek text of the Excerpts of the new testament and Hippocratic Oath. He has showed the ability to analyze these ancient text independently, which has given him a solid foundation for advanced Ancient Greek reading and for ancient Greek philosophy study.

Moreover, Tang and I have both been members of a reading group, hosted by Professor Ren Chongbin, focused on Platonic dialogues since the spring of 2023. In this setting, I have observed his familiarity with both Straussian and analytical traditions in Plato's studies, as well as a basic understanding of the Tübingen School. He is capable of evaluate and reconstruct Plato's argument with rigorous logical forms, but he is also able to see the nuanced implications and to evaluate the arguments in a holistic way. His contributions to our close readings of Plato's Meno and Theages were nothing short of insightful, demonstrating his remarkable ability to engage with complex philosophical texts critically.

As for his motivation to study philosophy, it is evident that Tang possesses a genuine and profound interest in the subject. His consistent pursuit of philosophical knowledge, his enthusiasm for grappling with complex philosophical texts and his capacity in classic language reflect a deep-seated passion for the field. Tang's commitment to the study of philosophy is a testament to his unwavering dedication and intellectual curiosity.

In conclusion, I wholeheartedly recommend Tang Zongyuan for further studies in philosophy. He is an exceptional student who possesses the intellectual acumen and motivation to excel in advanced academic pursuits. I am confident that he will make a significant contribution to any academic community he joins.

Please do not hesitate to contact me should you require any further information.

Sincerely,

Professor Xiong Wenchi 
Shanghai International Studies University